Bellyache
My eyes lift momentarily from the trash heap to scan the deserted boulevard. A flitter of something had caught my eye. Trash blowing by? Another scavenger sifting through the debris? Or one of Them?
Behind rows and rows of trash, mountains of trash, a whole city’s discharge of refuse and debris, I spy a figure moving. I lift my bat, more of a signal at this distance than a necessary precaution. They are not deterred by such things. A hefted bat is a useful signal, though, if the moving figure is one of Us, that I am not one of Them.
I twirl the bat anxiously as I watch the figure, waiting to see which it is. Even at this distance, it is easy to distinguish between us and them. They lope. They stagger. They stumble. And when they get excited, they run. Oh boy, do they run. But no matter what they’re doing, they do not move in a natural way. Humans, or healthy ones at least, have an easy and fluid way of moving that I had never appreciated much until now. But it is incredibly fortunate to be able to tell the difference at a distance.
The figure shifts into view and waves. One of us. My bat droops. I must admit, part of me is slightly disappointed. Once you get the hang of it, they are not terribly dangerous. They can be fast when they get worked up, but that’s no reason to fear them. Heck, running is a terrible idea, since they won’t get tired. At the same time, their lack of fear or fatigue is a huge weakness. They won’t dodge a baseball bat or a car. Or an ice pick. Nothing will cause them to stray from their single-minded path to your flesh. So taking one out turns out to be a lot like hitting a baseball that’s the size of a human head and moving, compared to a fastpitch ball, at a pretty slow pace.
There’s something satisfying, really, to the crack and splurt that follows a good blow to one of their heads, the body crumpling on the ground twitching. Another one gone. It doesn’t empty the hate, but it salves it just for a minute. It helps. And I have so much hate. So much. It’s good to let it out now and then.
I know that what they used to be is human … but I cannot see them as human. Not after what they did. Not after everything they took from me. There is not enough revenge in the whole world that can ever make it right. I know that, but it doesn’t mean I won’t try.
We weren’t ready. I can’t really fault anyone. The powers-that-be did their best to prepare us. But we had it wrong. Not all wrong. Some of the details we had right. The hunger. The thirst for flesh. The insanity, the pure insanity of it all. But then there were key details we got wrong. Some major, major ones.
The good news was that the H6N11b virus – what inevitably due to its symptoms would become known as the "zombie flu" – was only 0.1% fatal. That was probably the only good news. The rest of it is just plain gut-wrenching awful. Worse than you could have imagined, really. Far worse than they had prepared us for.
It’s not like we didn’t see this coming. There’d been the movies and books and comics and TV shows. And then there was the real life outbreak – the slow burn for several years of the H6N11a flu variant that had mostly only affected infants and old folks. It was airborne – yeah, the movies got that part wrong too – so everybody got it, but for most people that just meant a nasty fever, intense irritability, and a severe case of the munchies. A healthy adult would awake after a stupor of several days to find an empty pantry and a pissed off family, but that was the worst of it. It wasn’t fatal. It didn’t lead to flesh eating, usually, at least not if you had a decent immune system. And that should have been a hint, right? It wouldn’t have taken much imagination to extrapolate for what was to come, the stronger, mutated H6N11b version.
On one level, with all of that, there’s just no excuse for not being prepared. At the same time, really, how could we have known? Seeing a video of a tornado and being told it’s coming is not the same as having one run over your house. The feeling of cowering in the closet, your forehead pressed up against the wall, your knees dug into your chest, your hands clenched over the back of your head to protect your spine from whirling debris. That freight train sound as the tornado rips down your world, murders your family before your eyes, and leaves you standing, somehow unscathed, with nothing but that scratch on your arm. Nothing can really prepare you for the experience. So I feel both ways about it. We should have known – they prepared us. And, yet, they really didn’t.
‘Cause see, the messed up thing about this one is, you’re both victim and tornado. You get to take turns.
Yeah, they didn’t tell you about that part. All the movies we’d been watching about the zombie apocalypse hadn’t prepared us for that. Thanks, Alex Garland. Thanks, George A. Romero. Thanks for nothing.
I won’t tell you how it starts. You already know that part. It starts with an isolated case in rural China. Then a freak face-eating incident in Southern Peru on one of those rickety buses that winds over the mountains. Then a business man blows it at an airport in Manilla, just after landing from an intercontinental flight.
Before you know it – global pandemic.
That’s pretty much how it unfolds in the movies and that’s more or less how it unfolded in real life. I mean, it took weeks. We all watched on the news. At first, with voyeuristic glee. Who doesn’t like a good pandemic scare? For a while there had been avian bird flu and swine flu and ebola and mad cow disease and there had even been the first variant of the so-called "zombie flu," which had turned out to just not amount to much if you were a healthy individual … and then it just went quiet for a while. So when this came along, at first it was a break from the regular doldrums of the news of the day – politics, murders, the economy sucks, whatever.
Cable news channels went nuts. They trotted out the "experts." They read us the comments in their email inbox from every random idiot under the sun, as if learning how to operate email somehow makes your opinion newsworthy. They even had Max Brooks up there telling us what kind of hand-held weapons we should own. Everyone was having a grand old time.
Which was fine for a while. And then about three weeks in, it started to sink in: this was for real.
They started mandating blood screening before traveling overseas. Airports emptied out as all non-essential travel shut down. The entire southern half of Brazil was quarantined. Kids stopped going to school. People stopped coming into work. Everybody was into telework all of a sudden.
China just dropped plain off the grid. Locked down. The only footage that made it out of the whole country was a single five minute clip from a shaky handy cam with that one scene the cable news kept playing over and over again. The body lying in the alley, suddenly pulled around the corner by something unseen.
And that’s how it was everywhere. You saw the helicopter footage of rioting in the streets, burning cars and coils of black smoke rising from São Paulo, but you didn’t see them. They were there, in the darkness, sometimes heard but rarely seen.
You wanted to. There was a sickness to it all, a perverse voyeuristic glee in seeing it all come to life, the very same scenes you had watched on television and movies all these years. And now it was here, but so much more exciting knowing that it was real.
The truth, though, is that it’s only safe and good when you have the barrier of your TV screen between you and reality. The TV screen leaches out the texture of the horror. You can see the curved bit of white in the distance and you think it might be a human rib bone, which is kind of titillating, but you don’t know for sure. And you definitely can’t see the teeth marks on it.
You can imagine the horrors inside now-abandoned buildings, but you can’t actually smell the ripe stench emanating from a daycare center.
… Or the sounds coming from within. The crunching.
They shut everything down. But, as you know, it was all for nothing. By then, it’s too late. You’re chasing the back-end of a wildfire, waving a garden hose. What’s the point?
One day I came into work and the building was shut down and there was a splotch of blood on the sidewalk in front of the lobby. There was blood on the doors too. The building was locked and a hastily drawn sign simply said: "closed." There was a phone number written underneath. I called, but no one answered.
The horror wasn’t confined to the television anymore. It was here.
By now, the news was reporting things like "calling out the national guard" and "CDC quarantine" but it was already too late. Later that afternoon, I saw one of them running down the street. An eater. A z-monster. Skinbag. Whatever you want to call it. One of them.
It wasn’t human. That much was obvious. There were trace things that were reminiscent of humanity – one shoe, a tattered pant leg, a wristwatch still in good condition. But nothing else, really. Blood everywhere. Its blood. Someone else’s blood. Probably all of the above. And above all else, the growling. This crazy, animal growl that you could hear from three blocks away. Like nothing I’ve ever heard before. Like a hungry wolverine. This animal urge to feed.
I thought about things like: "I should get a gun. I should get supplies." But I did none of that stuff. I went home to get Helen and Sasha and Danny and we hid. I mean, that makes sense, right? They were eating people out there. What the fuck was I supposed to do?
And fuck you for questioning.
I wish I could go back to every bullshit zombie show I ever saw and when the people decide to get all brave and "go on a run" to get gasoline or medical supplies or Mars bars or some bullshit, I would say: "No! Nobody does that! Only idiots who then get eaten go outside. Everyone sane stays inside!"
And we did. We boarded the windows and locked the doors and hunkered down in the basement. We didn’t make any sounds. We ate what we had in the house. We used a chamber pot and emptied it out the second story into the flower bed at night. Gross? I’ll tell you what’s gross – getting your face eaten off. That’s gross.
We did some smart stuff. When everything first went to hell we first filled up everything we could in the house with water – tubs, buckets, bottles, whatever. And that lasted the four of us about nine days, with rationing, after the plumbing went out. I was pretty proud of that. My idea. That probably gave everyone another week or so.
I’m not a bad man. I was a good father. A good husband.
No one is perfect.
I survey the scraps that I’ve found in my trash-collecting for the day. Some bits of copper wire. Maybe I’ll be able to trade those for something. For what, I don’t know. With whom, I have even less of an idea. I avoid everyone I could possibly come into contact with. A sensible precaution.
On my kitchen counter I have some bits of eggshell and some orange peels. The eggshell I might be able to use for a stew, or to flavor some soup broth, if it came to that. I’m not quite there yet – my stomach doesn’t feel right anyway – but in a day or two I might be that hungry. The orange peels I’m not sure about. I eye them suspiciously. They’re good for something, I just haven’t figured it out yet.
Finally it hits me: tea. I’ll heat up some water and boil the orange peels, letting the juice soak out into the hot water to give it some flavor. This is how they used to make tea, I think to myself, without any firm basis in reality. It’s not like I can google it. And now we have to learn these things again for ourselves. Not like I give a shit about rebuilding, or what comes next. I’m only living for revenge now. I’m going to kill every last one of them, and then when they’re all gone … I don’t know. Then we’ll see what comes next. Maybe I’ll move on to be with my family. Maybe.
But for now, I’m focused on heating up these orange peels to make some tea. One by one, I’m slicing these orange peels as thin as I can make them and then easing them into the hot water. I’m pretty sure the thin slicing will help the flavor come out. Somehow that just makes sense to me.
I’m optimistic this tea will help my stomachache, which is killing me. I’ve been shitting blood for the last two days. I’m in a desperate place now, and I’ll try anything. It’s beyond pain. It’s a stomachache beyond anything I’ve ever felt before, like churning balls of fire in my stomach, just turning over themselves again and again, tying up my organs like some monkey’s fist knot.
The tea helps a little bit. As the pain eases, I find my mind uncontrollably slipping into the past, to things I’d rather not remember. But the memories are there, as real as the skinbags roaming the streets outside, whether I like it or not. I can run and I can hide, but they’re still there.
"Daddy, can we go outside yet?"
I looked down and Danny was giving me his best puppy dog look and swaying to and fro, his hands tucked in between his legs with his knees bent, with the kind of barely contained exuberance that only a child has.
I was sick of being asked this question. If I had a drop of water for every time Danny or Sasha had asked me, I could have outfitted us with water to last a month, and given us all baths too. Instead, it is the lack of water that pushed me to the top of the basement steps where I was peering out.
"Go downstairs!" I whisper-yelled in a harsh voice. "Or else!"
Danny was not much impressed by my threat. We’d spent the past thirteen days in the basement together, all four of us trapped just waiting out the insanity. By now, the radio had been off the air for over a week. Occasionally, we heard gunshots outside, but mostly just the grunting and chomping of the eaters as they roam the neighborhood. As near as I could tell, anyone uninfected was either dead or in hiding.
Danny didn’t like being yelled at, though. He’s the sensitive one. He trudged down the staircase looking downcast, and I had to remind myself that I was sending him away for his protection.
I peered out the peephole I’d drilled into the basement door and surveyed my kitchen. It looked safe, unmolested. As far as I knew, the eaters had not yet ransacked our house. And it would be hard to miss if they did. A raging z-monster is anything but stealthy.
Or, at least, that’s how things were two weeks ago when we locked ourselves in, barricading ourselves into the basement after we heard reports on the radio of eaters climbing through windows to get at people. And after I’d seen Ed Walters from two doors down, infected and feverish, wandering across my lawn in search of something to eat.
So we’d locked ourselves in with food and water and a hand-crank radio, which was all fine and good until the radio station also went dead three days later, replaced only by the emergency broadcast beacon. It’s been nothing but that mind-rending grinding over the air from then on. And now we were running out of water so I needed to venture out to find some. The pressure in the pipes had gone out the day after the radio, nine days ago. No doubt the city water pumping system had collapsed. The water I’d saved in the tubs and buckets had gotten us to this point, but now we were bone dry. I didn’t know where I was going to get water from. Even if I found a source, all I had to bring it back was some milk jugs and a picnic cooler. But it was pretty much do or die at this point.
I waved to Helen, who was at the bottom of the stairs with Danny and Sasha cuddled up between her legs. I cracked open the door and stepped out into our first floor, jugs and cooler trailing behind. "Lock it behind me," I said, as if Helen needed the reminder. As soon as I shut the door, I heard her rush quickly up the stairs to slam the deadbolt home. Then, just as quickly, I heard the patter of her feet back down the stairs to the relative safety underground.
First stop – the kitchen knives.
The house was clear, and after fifteen minutes of watching the neighborhood surreptitiously from the front window and seeing no movement in the street, I ventured knife in hand in to the garage.
I was certain I was going to find someone. I had that prickly feeling you get – a premonition or a gut sense or whatever – that some evil was about to befall me. It was like I could almost hear the suspenseful music playing in the background as I fell right into the trap, armed only with a butcher’s knife, surely an inadequate weapon against one of them. Or maybe it would just be an innocent person hiding for shelter, under the car or in one of the cars … or hiding behind the sports equipment … but in the heat of the moment as I surprised them they would fire their small holdout revolver, the little .38 they had picked up from grandpa’s dresser drawer. And I would bleed out there in my garage, surviving the zombie apocalypse only to die in the same pedestrian manner I could have been killed any day of the week on the subway coming home from work.
The garage was empty, though. So maybe my gut is not, in fact, a finely attuned divining rod for danger after all. Surprising. I added a baseball bat to my makeshift arsenal, then loaded the motley assembly of water containers into the trunk and hopped in the car. The sound of the garage door opening hit my ears like a jewelry store alarm, announcing my offending presence to the entire neighborhood. I expected to encounter, as the door rose at an agonizingly slow pace to reveal the blistering daylight beyond, nothing less than a horde of staggering, starving skinbags gathering on my driveway, preparing to swarm my car and tear me limb from limb. But the door rose to reveal an empty driveway and an equally empty street. I jammed on the pedal and recklessly swung the car into the road, ready to run down without mercy any flesh-eaters headed my way. But there was nothing. In fact, there was little at all unusual on the suburban street to betray that a calamity of apocalyptic proportions had struck our world. I did a long, hard 360 with my eyes, keyed the garage door again and watched it close, and then slowly cruised out of the neighborhood. A small part of me began to wonder if we had lived two whole weeks in the basement for no reason, like it was all a paranoid dream. Were it not for the lack of electricity, water pressure, TV or radio in the house, I might have even believed it. But even if the whole world had not gone crazy, at the very least they were all gone.
Once I hit the main streets, though, the illusion of a vacant but otherwise normal world faded quickly. It was only a quarter mile before I saw the first car accident, a red Honda Civic plowed into a tree. I slowed down enough to gape, but kept it rolling fast enough to gun it out of there if need be. As I rolled past, I spied a slumped body pinned between the Civic and the tree. The front grill had hit the woman about waist-high, and the top half of her was draped over the hood, limp and bloated from decay. Her skin was purple shading to black, and her brown hair fanned out across the hood like the tail feathers of some infected peacock. I was grateful that I could not see her face. Even still, the image haunted me. The driver’s side door of the car was open and the driver gone. Whether she had been an eater run down by a healthy person or a healthy person run down by a skinbag was unclear … and probably didn’t much matter. Or maybe it was some other permutation of possible encounters. I had no clear idea of how bad it had gotten, of how much fear and panic had led to violence against innocents, or how much the world had turned into a feeding frenzy of z-monsters eating one another.
That was another thing the movies had all gotten wrong. In every single one, the eaters congregate in packs and chase down the living, but leave each other unmolested. In reality, the hungry were in fact not particularly discerning. If it was even remotely edible, it was eaten, a principle I saw ample evidence of as I continued my drive.
Further on down the road, the car wrecks increased in number, and I saw plenty of cars that had collided or simply pulled off to the side of the road, doors ajar, sometimes with blood splotches where drivers and passengers had perhaps been pulled out of their vehicles by the ravenously hungry. Or in other cases simply empty spaces where people had fled. Or jumped out to pursue others.
Could an infected, feverish z-monster drive a car? I didn’t know. Perhaps at the point where their infection was low grade, they could. I did not have a good sense of the time sequence for when hunger overcame rationale thought, and when and how muscle memory played a role. And to this day, I still don’t quite know.
The panorama of destruction played out in a not unexpected fashion as I drove the mile or so down Cleveland Ave to the mini mall. Cars were randomly scattered throughout, sometimes crashed into one another, sometimes abandoned. In some cases they sat in the middle of the road, like giant traffic cones warning of trouble ahead. In other cases, they were parked askew on front lawns and in flower beds, as if the garden gnomes had decided to hail a cab. Here and there was evidence of violence – brown splotches on doors and in the pavement. Broken windows in houses. But never a sign of movement. Nothing to indicate anyone might have survived whatever nightmare had torn through town. And with the exception of the woman pinned against the tree and a few other lumps I thought I saw behind some cars, there were few bodies. The lack of signs of the living I could explain. The lack of bodies, however, left me uneasy. I pulled my baseball bat closer across my lap, patted it comfortably with one hand, and continued on.
The tea calms by stomachache only a touch, and when I sit back in my chair and close my eyes, my mind drifts back to Danny and Sasha in the basement, their big eyes looking up at me asking for a glass of water. That aching, raw thirst that had driven me outside to fend for our family. A different kind of stomachache from the one I have now, although the one I have now feels like it still might kill me.
I doze off, overcome by a vicious energy-sucking fatigue, and wake to find that the sun has gone down and I am sitting in the dark, having neglected to light any candles. I pull out the mini mag in my pocket and light three of the candles piled on the kitchen table, their flames pouring out tiny circles of dim light, just enough to make my way through the house without smashing into things.
Out the front window, the moon easily lights up the front street, and while I first think it must be a trick of the shadows, eventually my eyes make out the unmistakable shape of a person slowly creeping across the front lawns of the houses across the street.
The fluid, deliberate movement betrays the person as one of us. It has been several days since I have seen a z-monster out, and more and more I have begun to see healthy people re-emerging again from wherever their hiding spots have been. Like we did, I suppose, they too have finally probably run out of food or water. Always solitary, though, and usually at night. I am slightly surprised to never see packs of healthy people moving together, which would seem so much safer and more sensible. But, then again, I am on a side street and perhaps the downtown area is much different. There, no doubt, people must form gangs or be at the mercy of others. Or so I assume. I watch for a minute or more as the figure slowly and cautiously continues onward, staying off the street but also keeping a good distance from the houses, no doubt so as to not be surprised by an eater passed out in the bushes. And then he – or she – passes from my sight. It does not occur to me to call out to make contact or discuss pooling our resources. I have even less interest in engaging with one of us than I do with running in to one of them. With them, at least the risk is offset with the possibility of revenge.
I pulled the car up outside the mini mall, where all pretense of normalcy was gone. The parking lot was, in short, a sea of disaster. The sheer volume of cars gave every impression of Black Friday at the shopping mall, with the exception of the eerie silence. No shouting. No horns. No idling engines. No cars circling for a spot. No one stalking pedestrians waiting to take their empty space as soon as they got in their cars and pulled out.
There was no noise at all, save for the crows. A legion of crows. An army of crows, pecking their way through the wreckage. I tried not to think about it, but it was impossible. Even with my windows rolled up, the smell of rotting flesh began to seep through the air vents into the car. I felt I was going to be sick.
Still, the grocery store held tremendous promise. Almost limitless risk, but also the potential for great reward. I could not think of a better place to start looking. I drove the car as close as I could get without getting boxed in, turned the car around so I could quickly drive away if need be, then pulled my shirt over my nose and exited, baseball bat in hand. I left the coolers in the trunk, slipped the keys into my pocket and locked the doors. Then I waded into the suburban abattoir.
It would have been best to just move straight through the parking lot without looking. Just bury my face in my shirt, breathe through my mouth, and move forward. But I couldn’t, really. My head swiveled to and fro like a lighthouse beacon, looking into every crevice and corner for threats. My mind interpreted every flutter of paper and cloth as a skinbag ready to leap out from behind a car to savage me. I was acutely aware of the possibility that, so many days into the outbreak, eaters might now be passed out from exhaustion, and any noise I made could resurrect an army of them to swarm me and tear me limb from limb. Because here, in the parking lot, there were bodies. There were plenty of bodies. I tried not to look close, and many bodies were clearly just remnants, just shreds, just husks remaining after the eaters had taken their fill. But others looked relatively intact. Wounded or killed, perhaps, by a single blow to the head. But in other cases, the cause of injury was unclear. They could have been sleeping. Although I doubted they were.
I foolishly picked up a shopping cart along the way. I took just one step, and the clatter of the cart rang out across the dead parking lot like a staccato ring of gunshots, like church bells announcing a holiday feast. And the feast was me. I stopped and listened, my ears practically reaching out into the air for any hint of a sound. Perhaps a moan, a car door opening, a body stirring. My own breathing sounded like a jet engine. I tried to will myself to be quieter, but to no avail.
I waited to hear something over the roar of my breathing, but I heard nothing. No collective moan of a thousand skinbags rising up against me. No hot breath on my shoulder from one creeping up behind me. Still, I jettisoned the cart and decided I would take my chances on finding one in the store. After all, if the store was anything like the parking lot, there would be plenty of carts everywhere.
If I was thinking clearly, the scene in the parking lot should have given me pause. Any logical extrapolation to what was inside the store would have resulted in the conclusion that going inside was both suicidally dangerous and probably pointless. But you know that clever guy in the zombie movies who always does something ingenious and smart, that makes you think, "I would hope that in a disaster situation I would think like that?" I’m not that guy. I’m just an ordinary person. Before all of this started, I was an insurance adjuster. Not some kind of special forces, Macguyver-type hero. I once brewed my own beer in my garage using a $30 mail order kit my kids got online for Father’s Day. That was about the most ingenious as I ever got. And you know what? It tasted like shit. Not too impressive.
But I was smart enough to leave the shopping cart behind. Just not smart enough to avoid the store in the first place. Across that whole parking lot, my heart must have leapt damn near clean through my chest about two dozen times, when a crow would flit past, or when a change in the wind – or maybe just my imagination – would leave be convinced an eater was on my back, mere seconds away from tearing out my jugular. I would swing my bat wildly as I whirled around. But always nothing. By the time I made it to the front door of the grocery store, I had seen a total of zero living humans, infected or otherwise. And maybe that’s what gave me the courage to go inside.
The sun rises and I awake with a start, reaching for the baseball bat and quickly scanning the room for possible threats. This is probably unnecessary, as I’ve hung tin cans on string around every window and door in the house so that anyone coming in would make enough noise to wake even the dead, but I jolt awake on high alert anyway. And then I remember that I don’t give a shit about life and I fall back into my chair and take a swig from the mostly empty bottle of Jack Daniels sitting on the coffee table.
It’s been going on three days with this stomachache now. I can’t remember eating anything particularly sketchy, but something I had must not have sat well with me, because I’ve had an apocalyptic case of food poisoning for the past three days. The first day I tried to kill it and my headache with booze, which was probably a terrible idea. Yesterday, I suffered a stomachache plus a hangover as a result. By this morning, I’ve recovered enough from the hangover that trying the booze remedy seems like a good idea again. If it doesn’t work, perhaps it will render me brain dead. That would be good enough, I think.
The alcohol hits my distended stomach and intestines like a splash of water in a jar of acid, which – and I don’t remember much from high school chemistry, but I remember this much – is bad. I’ve had the shits for three days now and the diarrhea comes again like a groundswell. I rush outside to relieve myself in the bushes. The plumbing in the house, of course, doesn’t work. The house smells bad enough as is. I’m glad I’ve had the forethought not to shit inside where it would stew and ferment in the heat. MacGuyver, suck on that.
A river of lava pours out of my ass onto my wife’s azaleas, blood mixed with god-knows-what. I look at it for a long time after I’m done, trying to ponder what I could have eaten to upset my system so badly. The mush is incomprehensible, though. Then I remove my shorts and wipe myself with them before coming back inside. I should have thought to grab some toilet paper on my way out the door. I make a mental note to stash some in the kitchen by the door. Figuring out life post-apocalypse is a work in progress.
When I return to the house, I see through the picture window a person walking down the street in broad daylight. Not sneaking, not creeping. Not staggering or stumbling. Just walking. Carrying a two-gallon jug of gasoline. Heading somewhere to siphon, I suppose. This is now the fourth or fifth person I’ve seen since yesterday moving openly about. Maybe things are changing. I don’t know.
The grocery store looked like it had been ransacked by a horde of rabid, starving raccoons. Food was everywhere, strung out in the aisles, dumped from overturned shopping carts, and the smell of rot was incredible. Worse than even outside. I should have thought about that, I realized. Should have expected it – milk and produce and the meat aisle and the seafood market. None of that was going to keep.
I stopped at the entryway to listen. I imagined that I might hear the sound of a foot being dragged, as an eater slowly patrolled the aisles. Or perhaps the soft squishing sound of someone munching their way through rotten flesh. But there was nothing. I weighed the benefit of doing a thorough, stealthy patrol of the store first to find any possible eaters before I started rounding up food against the more surgical plan of going for what I thought would be most useful, and then just getting out. My plan was to do a survey, but then I found the juice aisle and I was all-in. I was beyond thirsty myself by now, mind you.
Have you ever tried to gnaw your way through a metal can? I’m not too ashamed to say that I tried. Pineapple juice, which I don’t even like, but that’s all they had. It was those cans of pineapple juice, the ones that can’t be twisted off – you need to punch holes in the top. Who still does that? What is this, the 1950s? Anyway, there were four of them sitting on the bottom shelf, like some lonely forgotten potion. In whatever battle royale had occurred here days or maybe a week ago, they had been left behind. Apparently not worth it to whomever had survived. But to me, that pineapple on the label looked like manna itself. And I damn near chipped a tooth trying to open the lid.
When biting through the metal didn’t work, I made the mistake of trying to smash the can open on the ground, which was astonishingly loud and, had it actually worked, would probably have just poured the precious scarce liquid all over the floor. But that was hopeless too, and I sat there for a moment wondering whether I had just sealed my fate by announcing my presence to every eater inside the store with a loud resounding bang, the coming horde of which I would have to fight off without even the benefit of fresh pineapple juice in my stomach. Ah, the irony of being eaten alive while starving to death.
But there was nothing. Before I made another other potentially fatal mistake in my desperation, I gathered up two of the cans in my arms and headed down the aisle to wherever they sold can-openers. I knew they had to be in here somewhere. Maybe in the battery aisle or something. Probably where they sold spatulas. Wherever that was.
There were bodies in the store. Not a tremendous amount, but they lay scattered with enough frequency that I guessed there might have been on the order of two dozen or more bodies total in the whole store. I passed a few that had been shot in the head and two others that looked like they’d suffered what can only be described as having their faces eaten off. Casualties on both sides of a now-passed war. Or perhaps it was not yet over and just at a temporary truce. I didn’t know and didn’t really want to find out. Even with that precious pineapple juice, the baseball bat never was further than an arm’s reach from me.
I spent so much time looking over my shoulder in that store that I must have looked like an owl, turning his head around and around. After I’d gotten across the store to the can-openers and drank about half a can of pineapple juice without incident, though, I began to calm down. Maybe I began to let down my guard.
After another round at the bushes, I gather up a backpack, a red wagon and a baseball bat and decide to go searching. I’ve been conserving gas and avoiding driving the car since that first grocery run. For all I know, there is no more – and will be no more – functioning gas stations ever again. No more QuickTrips, Krispy Kremes, lotto tickets – the whole nine yards – so I want to save what gas I have for something truly important. If I decide to flee the city – and I can’t actually imagine why I would do that at this point – but if I do, then right now I have just over half a tank. Maybe I could get a little more if I went scrounging. I know enough to know the pumps won’t work without electricity. That means scrounging for gas equals rooting around in probably-hiding-infected-z-monsters abandoned cars and trying to siphon a little before an infected eats my face off. Or maybe a survivor who is also looking for gas blasts me with his double-barrel. It may come to siphoning from cars at some point, but I’m not eager to try it without good reason. In any case, my stomach feels so bad that the last thing I need is to be sucking on the end of a gasoline hose. So I leave my gas can at home. I’m going in search of water. Again.
It is astonishing how much water a human body needs. I had always heard such statistics, that a person needs two gallons of water a day to survive or something. More if it’s hot. But I never really appreciated how much water that is and how quickly you go through it. Until your plumbing doesn’t work. Then you realize pretty quick that, unless you have a creek nearby, it turns out to be a lot of water.
There is a lake not far from here and that’s where I’m headed, along with some opportunistic looting on the way there and back. You take what you can get.
The trash piles in the street are higher than before and the scattered cars are fewer, all signs I suppose that life is restarting again, even if not resuming any sense of normalcy. That may take a while, if it ever returns. But I do, in fact, see a fair number of people out and about. No children, though. All adults. Parents must be keeping them home safe. And everyone keeps their distance, both from me and each other. Telling regular humans apart and eaters is fairly straightforward for me and I assume it is for everyone else too. Still, that doesn’t mean I’m inclined to make friends. That must go for other folks as well because, strangely, I continue to see that people are nearly always alone.
At the lake are a half dozen or so folks gathering water silently, keeping a polite distance apart. I size them up, trying to gauge what I can of the world from the small sample of survivors before me. The clothes of everyone I see are dirty but intact, but all of them look like champions from some underground fighting league, covered in scratches and bruises. With just one look in the mirror, I can see why. I too am covered in scratches and bruises, war wounds from hand-to-hand combat with them. Mercifully, unlike the movies, apparently scratches from infected do not lead to infection because, aside from the stomachache, I feel fine, my small bout of flu last week having now passed.
Not wanting to crowd anyone, I wait until a space opens up at the lake as someone leaves and then I drag my wagon with water containers forward. As the woman who was gathering water before me departs, she darts her eyes downward and away. I try to nod politely – smiling would be a bridge too far for me at this point – but she is not interested in meeting my eyes. And that’s probably for the best anyway. I’m not really in the talking mood.
I guess I got lazy in the grocery store. Or I just got consumed with what I was doing. After having a good healthy swig of pineapple juice, both my courage and energy were feeling up, and I started moving through the aisles picking up supplies. As I said before, there was little left, but my haul quickly eclipsed what I could carry by hand. My focus was on liquids, since we had enough mac and cheese and ramen in the household to actually keep us all functioning for about a month. Liquids weigh a lot so it didn’t take long before a cart was required. I cringed at the noise the cart made, but no z-monsters sprang from behind the aisles to greet me as I wheeled around, so I began to feel comfortable.
Obviously, the point I’m making was that I was committing a huge mistake.
I had the cart loaded up with three full cans and one half-drunk can of pineapple juice, a jar of prune juice, two bottles of vinagrette salad dressing (I wasn’t sure if this was drinkable or not, but it was a liquid), and a bottle of barbeque sauce to flavor the ramen with, when it dawned on me that canned green beans had quite a fair amount of water in them. In fact, I bet other canned vegetables did as well! I eagerly wheeled my cart to the canned vegetable aisle and began heaping everything I could find into the cart. There were a lot of garbanzo beans and not very many green beans, but I was focused on the quantity of cans and likelihood of water inside, not the type of food. Tomato paste, no. Stewed tomatoes, yes.
Well, it must have been that over the loud noise of me heaving cans into the cart I didn’t hear him coming, because the eater was about lunging distance away from me when he stumbled on a loose can and gave himself away. I looked up, and no kidding there was a full-blown z-monster, bloodied mouth and crazy eyes and all, looming over me ready to sink his teeth into my beautiful flesh. I didn’t waste any time. No freezing in place for me. I scrambled quickly out of the way, grabbing my bat while still in motion, and jumped to my feet. Luckily for me, he was tired or sleepy or whatever and he wasn’t moving very fast. Still, I wasn’t going to take my chances.
I cocked back the bat just like I was lining up at the plate and took very careful aim. Maybe I would get more than one shot at this, but I wanted the first one to count. He was taller than me, so I would have to aim up high, but thankfully he wasn’t moving quickly at all. His head bobbed in a slow figure eight, eyes glassy, his mouth open and drooling a mix of saliva and blood on the floor as he staggered towards me.
CRACK! I let loose. He went down like a crashing 747, knocking cans every which way as he tumbled to the ground. Not wanting to risk him fighting back, I ran forward quickly and delivered a series of smashing blows to finish the job. It was, I must say, rather exhilarating. I was careful to close my mouth, mind you. None of that flying blood infecting me, thank you. But I kept swinging until his skull was good and turned inside out. He twitched for a minute, but I took that as normal and waited to make sure it would stop. It did, and then nothing.
The aisle (and me) were thoroughly covered in blood. But I had done it. I had faced one of them down and beaten it. I don’t think I’d ever felt this good in my entire life. It was beyond life affirming. If I had done nothing, I would be dead by now. It was that simple. Instead, I had taken action and destroyed the threat. Now I just needed to get home with my loot and put my newfound skills to use protecting my family.
Even with all the cans I gathered up, it still wasn’t enough, so after I loaded up the car I headed to a small lake near our house to get some water for the coolers. The trip back across the parking lot was uneventful, and inspired by my little bit of violence in the store, I was less timid and anxious weaving through the cars, which made the whole trip a lot faster and less painful. As it turned out, no more eaters came to chase me. I did see one figure in the distance across the street from the grocery store. It was quite clearly a regular person, moving in a deliberate and crouched fashion carrying what I think was a crossbow. How silly! I thought. A baseball bat works just fine! But to each his own. I waved, but no response. Then it dawned on me that, covered in blood, I might look like an eater if not for the shopping cart. The figure moved on and I hopped in the car.
I washed in the lake– Danny and Sasha didn’t need to see me come home caked in blood – after I had filled up all of our containers. The lake probably wasn’t potable, but a few drops of bleach back in the house would take care of that. I had to assume that the water in the lake itself did not carry infection, but I saw no way around that. It was a good size lake, so any small amounts of blood would probably wash away. But even if the lake was infected, without water we would die, so I wasn’t sure what alternative I had. In any case, it turned out to be fine.
The family gobbled down the pineapple juice and, once we had let the bleach do its thing, the water with enthusiasm. The kids needed it and, truth be told, so did Helen. Hell, so did I. Afterward, we all felt a lot better.
The next day, unfortunately, I came down with a bug. Probably something the bleach hadn’t killed. I couldn’t be sure. I told Helen to make sure the rest of the water was treated extra and she did, and as it turned out her and the kids didn’t get it. Which was just as good, because I got sick as a dog.
"Hey, hey!" I yell.
The woman turns, but doesn’t smile. She reaches into the pocket of her hoodie and pulls out a small gun, I see. She doesn’t brandish it, just holds it there by her side. I’m still twenty feet away down the middle of the street and there’s no one else in sight, so she has plenty of time.
I raise my hands to signal peace. "I just want to talk," I say.
She seems less enthusiastic. Her eyes are narrowed to knife-slits and, while her jaw is immovable, one part of her cheek twitches like the tail of a puma ready to pounce. She simply nods – a short choppy motion of her head – giving me permission.
"I just –" this wasn’t how I had imagined this going. "Do you know where They all are?" I ask.
It’s hard not to sound like a dumbass when I say this. I mean, who goes looking for the zombies? If they’re gone, they’re gone. Let it go. But the world is so one hundred and eighty degrees from a week ago that I can’t make sense of it.
When we first went underground, the city was falling into chaos. Neighbors had turned and were eating each other. Z-monsters were running loose in the streets. It was the worst part of every horror movie I’d ever seen, except there was no popcorn or junior mints to occupy me through the show and it didn’t end in two hours. The shit was real, and it was a lot less funny when the person they were chasing was you.
When I first began to venture out two weeks later after being holed up in the basement, the city was dead. No more eaters charging through the streets. In their place were bodies – and evidence of bodies – everywhere. The eater in the grocery store was the only one I saw, and even he seemed less lethal than before. Maybe they were all tired out. Maybe they’d eaten each other. Maybe I’d just gotten lucky. I don’t know. But the only other person I saw at all that first day was the figure with a crossbow from a distance.
But now over the past few days, I had begun to see more and more people with increasing regularity. And no z-monsters. There was no mistaking the fact that things were changing. Which was good … except for the fact that I had left my life behind on the other side of this broken looking glass we’d crawled through. And there was no way back. So fuck normalcy. Fuck rebuilding. All I want is find the z-monsters and kill. And after that, after I’d killed till I couldn’t swing a baseball bat or thrust a knife any more, then we could see. But I had a sense that would take a long time. There was no making up for what they had done.
"Excuse me?" the woman asks, her tone beyond incredulous.
"Where are they?"
"They’re …" she looks confused. "Where have you been?"
"My family and me were holed up in the basement," I say. "But …" my voice cracked. I’d never said it out loud before. I’d never wanted to even think about it. But somehow, now, I want – need – for it to be said.
"They must have broken in," I say. "I don’t know. I was sick – I must have got the flu from some bad water. And I was out of it. All of a sudden they were in the house. I don’t know how. I didn’t see them, and then they were just there. They attacked. I fended them off. I was sick but I fought them off. But …" And now it comes back to me. I was feverish, there, lying on the couch in our basement. And I don’t know how it happened, if they came in through the stairwell window or somehow broke the lock at the top of the basement steps. I still don’t know. But there they were, in the basement. And I tore at them like a wild hyena to protect my family, to keep Helen and Sasha and Danny safe. But there were too many. One after another. They ran away, and I pursued. They tried to fight back, but I had the strength of ten thousand men. That’s how energized I was to try to protect my family. They bit and scratched, but I could not be held back. It was a fight of animal against animal. Deep in the throes of fever, I couldn’t even feel the pain. I could barely comprehend. I just knew to fight, to protect, to defend.
"It was too late," I say.
I don’t mention how I passed out in the middle of the fighting, and how I awoke later, maybe the next day, maybe two. I don’t know how long I laid there until my fever subsided. When I came to, the skinbags were gone. I thought I had remembered attacking and killing them, but my memory was feverish and hazy and they must have survived to run away. There was no trace of them. But what I did find …  the pieces … of Helen and Danny and Sasha in the basement. The remnants of what the eaters had left behind. I can’t think about it. I can’t.
This is where I say that I was a brave man and I scooped up their remains and buried them in the yard. A proper burial like they deserved. Because I’m a good husband. A good father.
This is where I say that I did … but I didn’t. Instead I just ran. I ran upstairs. I tore through the house like a madman, not even consciously looking for one of them for revenge. Just running like a wildfire, tearing in every direction, no thought, no plan, just the thought to destroy anything and everything I saw. To spread the pain that I felt, that ached in my bones.
It’s been days and I still can’t return to the basement. I still have no plan. All I have is the shits and a bellyache like an inferno, my stomach churning like a cement mixer overflowing with molten slag, this nasty bug still lingering in me. That and a head full of rage.
The woman is closer now. Apparently judging I am not a threat, she has come closer to ponder me herself.
I can see her much better now. She is middle-aged, and has a body that suggests that before a week ago she was probably pretty soft. Not a survivalist type. Not a backpacker. Not a mountain climber. Not one to run adventure races through the woods. She probably watched a lot of Oprah.
But on top of that soft body sits a face that now looks as weathered and hard as a veteran oak. Her eyes might as well be cut from sharpened glass. Her face is scratched, and around her mouth are scabs and halfway-healed scrapes. When she opens her mouth, I see several teeth missing, a loss I assume is new. My tongue unconsciously flicks to a tooth of mine that is working its way loose. I must have bit down harder on that pineapple can that I realized. Next to the loose tooth, my tongue brushes up against a bit of something stuck between my teeth. I haven’t eaten anything solid in days – for how long it has been stuck there, I can only guess.
This woman is not alarmed by me. Her face shows a little pity, but mostly puzzlement. I wonder if she is curious about the scratches on my face and neck and arms. I’m not lying. I fought them like a ravenous tiger. I did.
I look up at her and I whimper, "I just want revenge. Just tell me where to find them so I can kill them. I just want revenge for what they did to my family."
"You were locked in the basement," she says, "and you say they somehow got in, but you didn’t see how?"
I nod.
"And they got your family? But you made it?"
"I fought back," I said. "I was sick, but I fought back."
"You were sick."
"Yes."
"Did you go out?"
"What?"
"Did you go out for any reason beforehand? Food. Supplies. That sort of thing."
"I went out for water. And there must have been something in the water. I got a bug. Just a little flu. They broke in. Where are they? Just tell me where they are."
The woman eyes me suspiciously and steps back a few feet. She hefts the gun, not quite pointing it at me, but just holding it at the ready.
"They’re better," she says. "It only lasts a few days. Then you get better. Like the flu … I guess."
She eyes me up and down, measures the expression on my face. "And …" There’s something more. Something she’s not sure I can take. "Stick to tea," she says. "Or broth. In about a week, the stomach ache will pass."