Cessation
Jack walked, head down, his only outward acknowledgement to the dozen others waiting was a slight nod. The weather made him miserable, struggling to get blood flow back to his freezing feet, made him mad. It was September and felt like December. Autumn’s biting cold patiently waited for the hazy golden hue of the evening sun to sink behind the shield of dense trees and the snow capped mountains. Once it was gone, the chill would devour whatever warmth had existed throughout the day.
The preserve, being some sixty miles from the nearest town wasn’t without heat. Situated throughout the staging area were six fifty-gallon drums, each one turned fire pit, and each one glowing from the fire within. The snow around each barrel was nothing more than thick sloppy slush and as he approached his chosen barrel, each of his steps pushed bitter liquid up and over the toes of his combat boots. Its icy fingers crept up his calves sending goose bumps racing across his skin. The barrel sat on the fringe of the staging area, lacked people and their monotonous mumbling, and when he reached it, he pulled his gloved hands from the flannel-lined pockets of his coat, stretching them over its warm gold tipped flames. It was time for silence, reverence, and he needed to think about what he was doing and what he was going to do. In seconds, what relief he found in the heat escaping through the holes of the barrel faded under his indecision.
It ran rampant.
He second-guessed every detail, even his choice of clothing; shirts, coat, jeans, his thick wool socks, and his boots. With another step closer to the flames, he exhaled more unspoken complaints about the melted snow that would soon turn to ice making his clothing useless, and watched the foggy grey ribbons of his breath drift in the moving air.
Silence sat as thick as the snow, and in its depth, between the men and women who journeyed to the preserve there was an understanding, ‘judge not’. They all came for a reason, the thrill of the hunt, curiosity, and then there was the other reason, the one that just thinking about it turned Jack’s already queasy stomach into a churning mess of nerves. There were those who went into the preserve to say good-bye.
What, he thought starring into the red/yellow flames, was the purpose of that?
Self-punishment, he answered himself. Maybe, sad as it was, it’s really an attempt to understand something, someone, who didn’t make sense anymore.
Jack coughed into his right hand and looked up at the buzzing yellow floodlights. What did the song say- the darkest hour never comes in the middle of the night? Whoever sang it was right, at least in his part of the world. If he remembered correctly, it happened in the middle of the damn day, noon, straight up, and even then, it started slowly, innocently, if you could say that about death. Almost like it was lolling you into acceptance, and once you were sure it was all going to be all right, it busted wide open.
Simple things, headaches, nausea, the chills, and a fever, sent groups of scared people rushing to hospitals. One by one, two by two, old, young, and everyone in between, fell sick. The hospitals didn't only admit them; they quarantined them with the fear they were dealing with a new strain of whopping cough. Jack shivered, they were smart to quarantine them, probably the only smart move made on their part, he thought bitterly. The first hours of chaos created panic, and the idea Mother Nature unleashed Armageddon to cleanse herself, crossed everyone’s minds. It wasn’t as if the idea people were born with an expiration date was possible.
Wave after wave people were changing and when no one could find a cure the unimaginable happened. The victim’s minds gave up, and not in death, they turned into frenzied monsters whose human form was the only thing human about them. Immediately the news went wild touting the sick as the real modern day zombie. The end of whatever they were was horrible.
Later, after the initial chaos turned to a gentle roar, the day became known as the Cessation, meaning the end. In the end, the name didn’t matter. The simple act of naming it, made it commonplace and easy to remember in one simple term rather than the nightmare it truly was.
The zombies didn’t care what name it went by, they kept coming.
With enough zombies locked up, and not merely in quarantine, but in cells, it gave doctors the opportunity to eliminate several possibilities. They weren’t zombies from the movies, it wasn’t bio anything, there were no chemicals in their blood, they weren’t contagious, and they weren’t simply sick. They all suffered from the same thing. An aneurysm. A vein exploded in their heads causing blood to soak into their brains, resulting in something resembling encephalitis. Somehow, it stripped them of their conscience, their knowledge of right and wrong and left them to survive on primal, territorial, and violent instincts.
It didn’t stop the rumors of testing, government conspiracy and too many other speculations he couldn’t remember. Too quickly, people chose sides, pro-medical went to hospitals, pro-chaos stopped going to the hospitals and started hiding. They, the zombies, soon out numbered the healthy, or so it seemed when their attacks turned states, counties, and towns into bloody disaster areas. When another wave of sick took to the streets, fear, hate, and frustration ruled over commonsense and the healthy went into hiding.
The question on everyone's lips- were people born with an expiration date, and if they were, how long before the entire human population turned into zombies?
No one had an answer.
After a five-month rampage resulting in countless dead, healthy and zombie alike, and a level of fear no one thought possible, the first wave started to die. Three more months and the second wave picked up where the first wave left off, falling dead where they stood. Everyone gave into the relief they felt when the zombies stopped, then fell. The break gave law enforcement, the military, and all healthies time to regroup and fight back. When the third wave fell ill, the fear of the expiration date became a reality. With or without acknowledging their pending termination, people concentrated on fighting the third and fourth waves. Worry eased further, when the waves began to spread out, at first by weeks and then by months, even the number of infected people grew less with time. It didn’t change the end. Those whose expiration dates came up, turned.
In the background mumbled voices drifted, but as Jack went deeper inside his own reasons for being there, they turned to whispers. He tugged the green tactical strap slung over his right shoulder, an old habit that brought the AR-15, to his right hand. His gun exploration had begun out of fear when the first wave ran wild, and as painful, as it was, all trial by error, he settled on the AR-15. The dealer told him, it was the civilian’s M-16. It was fast, efficient, and common enough he could buy rounds anywhere. That wasn’t his only gun. Just in case, he also carried a Beretta 9 millimeter holstered at his hip. The Cessation’s terror taught everyone a lesson in the importance of self-defense.
Jack pulled the sleeve of his coat back exposing warm skin to chilled air and checked the time. Too soon, with the company of his guide, he would walk through the gate entering the area created for the expired, known as the preserve. It cost him dearly, the trip to the preserve, and then the guide. You had to have one, and they had to be paid, you couldn’t go in and search the place for the person you wanted, as if the zombies were all lined up like dolls on a shelf with plastic covering them.
After the healthy gained control, places like the preserve, nothing more than pastures for zombies, sprouted up all over the US. Like the addition of the preserves, there were changes, states kept their names, but changed their counties to quadrants, and while some stayed the same size, the state expanded each section to incorporate smaller cities and even small towns. Jack currently stood in quadrant 31-A-52, he didn’t know what the numbers meant, but knew two cities lost their identities. The same went for most of the preserves, but not the one he stood in, it was notorious for civilian deaths and rated as one of the most dangerous. Its nickname, Sorrow Flats, hinted at its history, while the two hundred zombies living out their last days explained the danger.
Jack clutched his gun. After the Cessation, the definition of a human crumbled with society. You couldn’t be a zombie and a human. There were the healthies and there were the zombies. Human was taken out of the equation. Easy to understand when everyone had a pending expiration date.
Twilight lit the sky for scarcely a minute then gave into the night and its tyranny of cold. He gave into his thoughts, his regrets, and as another cough worked into a storm inside his chest, he thought about Faye. Jack covered his mouth, stifled the loudest part of the cough, then jumped. The gun slid forward with his surprise and hit the metal barrel causing a deep thunk to echo.
"Sorry to startle you, Mr. Meacher, the first chaser is on his way back. We have an alert on the tracker, and in a couple of minutes, we should have the quarry’s position. With the return and everything, you have a little over ten minutes to get ready." The guide spoke softly, squeezing Jack’s left shoulder and looking around as if he didn’t want any else to know why they were there.
"Alright, thank you. I understand." He mumbled.
The guide nodded, taking in Jack’s selection of gun, attire, and judging it all, and him, before turning and walking away. His guide, Ted, was a tall, muscular man, probably a fighter, or something equivalent before the world changed. Jack could only imagine how Ted’s talent and build helped in the world of the preserve. Smoke from the fire swirled in front of him, burning his eyes and making them water. His eyes, now slits watched the blurry back of Ted disappear.
In ten minutes, all would become real. An entire life summed up to meager minutes, trackers, alerts, and a position, he thought. Jack grunted and swung the gun back to his hand. This is what he paid for, the information, and approval to find then kill the quarry, his wife, legally. He knew he should have taken her to the hospital once the sickness came on, but how do you do that. How do you tell the woman lying next to you, her expiration date just blasted a vein inside her head and now she was bleeding and every minute she stared at him was another minute closer to becoming one of those things.
You don’t, a voice inside his head told him. You hide her, you love her, and then you let her die in her own time.
He was quick to argue back, the voice rising above the other, that isn’t how it happened. She got loose, killed someone, ate him, and ran, stumbled away.
And you let her go, coward, hoping the law wouldn’t know she was your problem, your wife, your secret.
Jack shook his head back and forth, then shook it harder trying to dislodge the accusing voices taking over. He was there to end her suffering and make it right.
"Mr. Meacher, this way please." Ted the guide said.
His name sounded foreign coming from Ted and he didn’t like it. But, how had the time passed so quickly? A rise started in his belly and he remembered the way Ted had said, quarry, as if that’s all Faye was, and had been. At the same time another cough seized his chest. Jack, while staring at the fire waited for the feeling to go away. Its flames reached above the soot-blackened rim, higher and higher, until a breeze knocked their greedy fingers back into the barrel. September wasn’t supposed to be cold- brisk, maybe, not cold. It felt as if it knew what he was going to do, and what his intentions were, it acted like death, cold.
It’s your conscience. It’s reminding you murder is against the law. It always has been, it always will be. The Cessation didn’t make it right.
"Mr. Meacher. It’s time." Ted’s voice reached through his thoughts.
He wasn’t murdering her- he was making it right. He didn’t have the chance before, or couldn’t do it before. He had it now. He could end it now. Turning around, his eyes followed the slow path away from the fire, and away from the warmth. When his brown eyes, the ones Faye looked into first thing in the morning, and the last thing at night, looked at Ted, Jack wondered what would happen if he shot him instead.
"This is highly unusual Mr. and Mrs. Emmerson. I’m not above telling you it borders on illegal and we don’t allow this kind of thing. But, your generous donation has changed our minds."
"I thought it would. We only want what is right. It’s been hard on all of us, more so, for my wife." Mr. Emmerson replied casting a hasty glance in his wife’s direction.
"I can sympathize with you, really." Mr. Murdock replied. "The first team will go through, and once Ted has them together, you’ll piggyback, then he’ll signal you. It’s imperative, to understand there are over two hundred quarries in the preserve. I’m warning you, there is an ugly side to the quarries. They fight, they are dying, and they are not the family members you remember. If a fight does happen, and there’s blood, it serves as a signal, and others will search for its source. We can get you out, safely, but remember for every quarry shot, there is a fee." Mr. Murdock finished.
Standing with his hand lightly resting on the butt of the gun strapped to his thigh, he waited for questions. His eyes, no longer their bright blue, but a yellow/green, from the lights above them closed as a scream streaked out from behind the gates and over the preserve’s walls.
"We understand." Mr. Emmerson said.
"Then we’re ready." Mr. Murdock replied.
"Mr. Meacher, we need to go. The tracker puts the quarry near the gate. We can get you in and get you out in a timely manner."
"Faye. Her name is Faye." Jack said abruptly. Ted held the gaze for a cold breath then turned away.
Jack without an argument from Ted followed as if in a deep trance. Automatically lifting one foot then the other, and feeling the slush squishing under the soles of his boots. Was he going to do this? Yes. He knew what it was like to kill. But this wasn’t the Cessation and he paid to kill someone. She was the walking dead. In two or three months, if one of the others didn’t kill her, she was going to fall down in a sloppy mess of her own rot. His face twisted with his thoughts. He was going to make it right, he told himself. No one deserved to die like that.
Jack followed Ted, watching the dark brown coat wade through the sea towards the gutter known as Faye’s home, and soon heard the sound of crunching snow. It was too cold for September, the snow, the ice, it was all wrong, but then, nothing had been right since the Cessation. He shoved each glove in their respective pocket then swung the gun up, caught it, and in a breath, his palm fit snugly on the pistol grip as his fingers wrapped around. It felt natural, the chilled metal warming under his sweating palm.
"Mr. Meacher, remember to stick close to me, I have the night-vision goggles and the tracker. Do not leave my side, any motion to leave my side and the chase will be aborted. Any movement towards a quarry, you are not authorized to kill, and the chase will be aborted."
Ted kept talking, going over the same rules of engagement they went over the day before. His voice droning on and on, while Jack could hear the beeps and see the red dot, Faye, he told himself, through the pocket of Ted’s new orange and silver vest. Jack nodded, when necessary, not an audible response, if he opened his mouth he would start yelling, ‘I got it, I got it, I know I know’. He lived through the Cessation; he can go into a controlled environment and shoot a half dead woman.
Sorry, Faye.
"Are we clear?" Ted asked.
"Yes." Jack pushed through his clenched teeth.
Ted stared at him, again, Jack felt the man’s eyes burn through his layers of clothing, chasing the chill away and leaving the stain of judgment in its wake. Jack was about to say something, he didn’t know what, but he was going to open his mouth, when Ted turned, and started towards the gate.
On the healthy side of the staging area, the wall looked average, the blocks weren’t ugly grey cinder blocks, they were shaped tan landscaping blocks, stacked high and topped with coiled razor wire. The gate, wasn’t a gate at all, they were two steel doors, in the middle of the wall of blocks. To say it looked like a prison was an understatement. And before he knew it, the preserve in all of its glory loomed before him.
Two armed men lifted a metal bar out of brackets as they approached. Ted wearing a clear plastic ear piece, spoke casually, and reported they were going through gate one. Jack took in the blocks, the stacked snow, the lack of light, the next gate, and the awful smell. It wasn’t bad, because there was snow, and it was cold, but it was there. Human, death, rot, and the sour tang their mixture created.
"Gate two, chaser, one." Ted said casually again.
With his words gate two slid back, as if by magic, the giant steel walls churned on metal rails while leaving a bald spot in its path. Jack stood inside the small area, gauging it a ten by ten foot room, made from cement walls and more coiled razor wire. Too small to fight in, easy to get trapped, and maybe that was the point, he thought. He let go of his gun, wiped his hand on his jeans, gripped it again, and listened to his heartbeat drown out the sound of the gate.
"Prepare yourself Mr. Meacher this is the last gate. The quarry is twenty yards in front of us. There will be no light. Once the quarry is located, I have a spotlight, once the spotlight is on, you will take aim, and shoot the target. Any hesitation…"
"I know- the hunt will be a aborted." Jack’s lack of patience played through. "I’m ready." His words sounded rushed, his breath coming in short struggled gasps. Like the words coming from Ted’s mouth, the horror of what he was doing hit him in the stomach. Take aim, target, quarry, she was his wife, not a thing.
Ted’s lingering stare made Jack question if he could do it. "Be advised. Leaving the hole and entering the preserve."
Jack stepped over the first rail, Ted went further into the dark, and Jack stepped over the second rail. The moon, a pale crescent sliver in the black sky offered him no help. He was stuck with Ted and his goggles. Staying close to Ted, Jack followed his shadowed bulk through the snow. The man’s breathing barely heard, his gait sure and strong while Jack’s was clumsy. Every other step had him tripping over hidden rocks, knee high saplings, and forest debris. Around them he could hear the zombies, their stumbling through the snow, limbs breaking as they walked into trees, brush, and then there were the cries. When he first arrived at the staging area, he ignored them, buried them under the arguments in his own head. Now they were louder, there were grunts, cries, screams, and worst of all there were sounds of gushing liquid.
"Mr. Meacher." Ted’s voice broke through. "The quarry is directly in front of us and is alone. You will have time to aim and fire. Once you fire, the noise will attract the others. I want you to understand this."
"I do. Dammit, I heard all your warnings." Jack growled out.
Here’s your chance to right your wrong, Jack. Faye’s voice lingered in his head. He was so close to seeing her, being with her, he could smell her perfume on the air.
"Light on." Ted said entirely too loud.
The spotlight’s white beam blasted through the darkness and Jack squeezed his eyes shut against its assault. His fingers instinctively tightened on the grip while securing the trigger. Silence sat around him, just the light, which he could see even with his eyes closed was the only thing giving away someone was there.
"If you’re going to shoot, Mr. Meacher, do it now." Again, Ted’s voice sounded too loud. All the warnings he was given about the dangers, of the quarries/zombies reacting to the light, the noise, the gunfire, all of it. It didn’t make sense.
Jack opened his eyes, gripping his gun and wanting to shoot Ted, the guide, who spoke too loud, and called his wife a target. Turning to threaten Ted, he saw his wife, and stopped moving, stopped turning towards the only person he wanted to kill. She stood in the snow, arms hanging at her sides as if the muscles in her shoulders had dissolved. Her short red hair looked brown from grime, while matted clumps of it seemed glued to her scalp. The sockets of her eyes resembled black pits of rot, surrounded by her white skin. But her lips were red, they matched the crimson stain on her chin and she was staring back at him, her mouth a gapping hole. The t-shirt and jeans she was wearing were no more than rags, and hung off her thinning, fading frame. At her feet, or ankles because her bare feet were buried in the snow, there was a half eaten torso, even as his mind rallied not to tell him what he was seeing, it was there. No hiding the bones, the blood, the torn skin, and it was male, the bare chest gleaming in the light proved it.
"Just like the one she killed when she got loose." he mumbled. The shadow from the spotlight wasn’t helping. Her sideways slanting body looked like a grotesque puppet whose owner was, pointing a gun at her. The gun, he carefully chose felt as worthless as his clothing, and twice as heavy. The strap around his shoulder felt tight, as if it was trying to take him to the ground. Jack let the gun slip from his fingers and felt it slide then stop, the barrel pointing its evil eye at the frozen snow.
He couldn’t hurt her when she got sick and he wasn’t going to do it now. He knew that a month ago and knew as he walked through the second gate. 
"I’m not going to do it. I’ll just good-bye Ted, because I’m not killing her." His stomach turned over, he was doing exactly what he didn’t want to do. Torture. Self-punishment. Coward.
"I thought you wanted to make it right, Mr. Meacher?" Ted asked. "That is what you said, isn’t it."
Jack didn’t turn around to face Ted, meaning the rhetorical question wouldn’t get an answer. But there was a tone to Ted’s voice, he didn’t like. Like the way he said quarry and target, and said things too loud. The way humans turned into zombies, all the excuses in the world didn’t make it make sense. Very slowly, with his back to Ted and his eyes on Faye, Jack started working the strap until he had the gun securely in his hand. Anger, hot and active worked through his veins then over his skin. I’m not cold anymore, he thought. No, he wasn’t going to hurt Faye. He was going to kill Ted. It would be easy to explain away.
"Then say your goody-bye. A crowd is coming our way, you have one minute, Mr. Meacher." Ted replied.
Without a sound, Jack turned around, his nerves jumping under his skin, his heartbeat pulsing in his ears. He wanted it to be like it always was. Ted’s night-vision goggles were missing and he was staring at Jack. That wasn’t the reason he froze. The bright spotlight Ted held wasn’t on the quarry, and he didn’t think it ever had been. It was pointed at him. In the distance, he heard them coming, the quarries, they were racing towards him following the noises.
"Mr. Emmerson you have your target?" Mr. Murdock asked.
"Yes."
"Fire when ready."
A gunshot blasted through the air.
Jack screamed as the bite from the bullet took his right knee out from under him. He went to the ground crashing into the snow and landing on his face. Panic exploded joining pain’s sharp burn that raced up his leg, and sat heavy in his belly, only to engulf his entire body.
"What is this?" he choked out. His lips moved against the snow, scarlet smears appearing with each word. They react to blood, a voice reminded him.
"Making it right." Ted answered as he knelt down. "They’re coming Mr. Meacher, they smell you and your blood." Ted said pushing Jack over to his back, then he went to work taking the AR-15 and the 9 millimeter from him.
"I don’t understand." Jack mumbled, while the accusing voices that had kept him company went silent drowning in his pain.
Ted wasn’t looking at him, and Jack stared at the man’s chin, the tightened muscles of his jaw, and the lack of remorse. Ted was watching the dark, he was checking in every direction for the quarries.
"Don’t play games, Mr. Meacher. Meet your end as a man and not the coward you are."
Jack lay back on the snow sinking into the frozen ground, letting the words of his guide feed his pending death.
"Mr. Emmerson, we are running out of time."
"I’m done here. Leave him to his wife." Mr. Emmerson replied, holstering his pistol.
"Yes, sir. Team we’re moving out and that includes you Ted." Mr. Murdock ordered.
"Will do." Ted said still kneeling beside Jack. "Everyone suffered during the Cessation. With the deaths, the blood, the fear, and the turmoil. No one is expected to come back from that a hundred percent. But you took it to a whole new low."
"Wait." Jack begged reaching out with a shaking hand. The noises were getting closer and he thought he could hear his wife moving closer. "I didn’t do anything, she got loose, that’s all. This isn’t right."
Ted stood over Jack, the ends of his brown stringy hair peeking out from under his ratty orange beanie. His brown eyes, empty of emotion, his upper lip bleeding from having hit the ground. Jack’s wounded knee wouldn’t kill him. It would stop him from running.
"The world broke you Meacher, and in your weakness you invaded Mr. Emmerson’s life by killing his daughter." Ted looked up, the spotlight outlining the dark figures approaching them. "Your wife didn’t kill those people, she left you when you lost your mind. Mr. Emmerson had us send you the information about your wife being here, to get you here. He paid for revenge. Does that sound right?" Without waiting for an answer, because he didn’t want to hear one, Ted clicked the light off, pulled his goggles back down over his eyes, and walked away. The crunching of snow, the stumbling of the quarries and the begging of Mr. Meacher filled the air.
It sounded right to him.