Mutagen
Bagley stepped from the doorway of the diner into the bright sunshine. It was mid morning and the day was already heating up. Today was going to be a scorcher. He looked up at the clear blue sky, then down to the dusty main high street which reminded Bagley of the old Wild West. The store fronts were dilapidated. The town was badly in need of investment.
Jobs in town were few and far between. If you wanted to earn a decent wage you had to escape and many headed for New York City. There was nothing in town to attract tourism but people visited the nearby Adirondack Park and mountain range. Mountaineers, hunters and fishermen staying in the cabins situated around the many lakes in the area.
Bagley was lucky. He worked at the local garage. His boss had sent him out for coffee and bacon rolls which he carried across the street heading back to work.
Ahead he could hear the screech of tires as a pickup veered onto the high street coming from the direction of the nearest lakes.
Engine revving, the vehicle drove at speed, swerving like the driver had been drinking. Suddenly it swung to one side and clipped the corner of another pickup parked at the side of the road. The driver lost control, the pickup swung back round the other way and crashed into a parking metre on the opposite side of the street.
Bagley walked towards the vehicle. Curiosity... well, we know where that can lead.
People closer to the incident had already gathered around the pickup, probably checking to see if the driver was okay. Bagley could see the driver’s door open, then the crowd scattered. Bagley squinted against the glare of the sun, trying to get a look at the driver to see if he recognised him.
It was a small town after all.
People were running past Bagley, away from the driver, one woman banged into him, knocking the coffee out of his hand.
Bagley looked down at the spilled beverage, unsalvageable, then to the running woman. Something about the desperate way she ran, as though her life depended on it, made Bagley look back at the pickup. He stood shocked at what he saw before him, the woman already forgotten. The driver swayed like a drunk, but this wasn’t what shocked Bagley, it was the appearance of the man. His hair was dishevelled, his greenish tinged skin seemed to be running off his face as though it was turning to liquid, and blood dripped from his mouth, over his chin and down the front of his previously white t-shirt.
"Zombie!" someone shouted as they backed away from the man. Not wanting to disappear, but finding a safe distance to observe.
Zombie<, thought Bagley quizzically, not immediately connecting what he saw with the fictional monster. There ain’t such a thing as a fucking zombie!
The driver staggered, holding his arms out, imitating one of the walking dead.
Another woman screamed, and protectively gathered her daughter against her.
"A fucking zombie!" he heard another shout in alarm.
Bagley wasn’t the brightest star in the sky, even he knew zombies only appeared in fiction, but this man in front of him sure looked like one.
Someone rushed into the street from Bagley’s right.
Robert Lister from the hardware store, rifle in hand.
He got in close, aimed, and put a bullet in the man’s head.
The zombie dropped down dead.
The crowd gathered in once again for a closer look.
The town wasn’t large enough to have a hospital, so the sheriff and a deputy - both wearing large winter storm coats, face masks like the ones used by carpenters to stop them breathing in dust, and latex crime scene gloves - covered the corpse in a sheet, carried it into a police cruiser, then took it to the police station until it could be collected by an ambulance and taken to the morgue at the hospital in the next town.
Rumour had it that the dead man was staying in one of the cabins near Lake Placid. Rumour also had it – you know how small towns are – the sheriff and his two deputies, followed by a pickup full of gun totting locals were headed out to investigate. Bagley heard all the rumours as he sat in the diner eating his cheese burger and fries, and thinking about the real possibility of a zombie outbreak. He couldn’t get his head around it. There wasn’t such a thing has zombies. But he’d seen it with his own eyes and everyone else was talking about it. Some were scared and getting ready to pack up and leave. Others were acting like it wasn’t real. Which it surely couldn’t be, could it?
Bagley finished his cheese burger and wiped his greasy fingers on a paper napkin. What did the town do now? Just go back to work like it never happened, or barricade itself in?
Bagley’s father worked at a quarry on the outskirts of town, which meant he’d be out at work. His father had a handgun wrapped in a towel, hidden at the back of his wardrobe. Bagley had a spare key to his folks place. He decided to go over and get himself a bit of protection. Just in case.
Bagley was walking back to work with his father’s fully loaded Colt .45 pushed down the waistband of his jeans. Now he had the gun he was starting to feel a bit ridiculous.
Bloody zombies, he had to laugh and shake his head.
He checked his phone. He’d been texting his mate Sam, to tell him what had been happening. But so far Sam hadn’t replied. He’d probably be at work in the National Park. Still no reply, he put the phone back in his pocket just as the sheriff’s police cruiser roared down the high street, leaving a cloud of dust in its wake. The cruiser skidded to a halt outside the station, about fifty yards in front of Bagley’s current location. The driver’s door opened and the bulky form of the sheriff clambered out. He stumbled, almost falling, and righted himself. Bagley continued walking forward watching the sheriff, wondering where his deputies were, and the boys in the pickup.
The sheriff stumbled again, reaching out for support. Bagley was now ten yards away and could make out the sheriff’s facial features. His face was unnaturally pale, with an almost greenish ting to his skin. Blood was dribbling from his nostrils, and was that blood leaking out of his eyes? Three people huddled closer around the sheriff. A woman moved over and blocked out Bagley’s view.
There was an ear piercing shriek and the woman fell backwards falling to the dusty floor with the sheriff on top. In the ensuing madness he seemed to grope at her breasts with both hands. The sheriff lifted his head up and looked around at the frantic, terror stricken people in the street. His stare almost seemed to ask: What are you all looking at? We’re busy.
Bagley, without thinking, pulled the Colt out from the back of his jeans, clicked off the safety. The sheriff took a head shot. Blood, brains, bits of skull and hair splattered against the front fender of the police cruiser.
Bagley passed out.
Bagley was in the county jail. He sat on the edge of his bed, head in his hands.
In the next cellar sat a local redneck he recognised from town. He didn’t know his name, had never spoken to him, but had seen him drinking in the bars.
"God, I could do with a beer," said the redneck. He seemed to be speaking to himself, but Bagley got the impression he was addressing him, as they were sat back to back, separated by the bars. Lister was the only other person down in the holding cells and he was way down at the other end.
"What you in for?" The redneck spoke again. "DUI, Possession? Fuck, I wish it was that simple. Me and my bro, we got paid to get rid of some barrels of waste. Supposed to drive out into the boonies and bury ‘em. Been lazy bastards ‘n it bein’ too goddamn hot we couldn’t be arsed, so we tipped ‘em off the back of the truck down the bank, into the bush below." He seemed to be speaking to himself now, rattling on. Maybe he needed to get it off his chest. "We thought they’d just end up in the middle of nowhere. There’s nowt down there off the sides of the mountain? No roads, paths, nowt. I thought that’d be the last we’d see of ‘em."
He paused.
Bagley thought he’d finished and asked, "What happened?"
"Some of the barrels must have cracked open. There’s disused mines out there, must have been an underwater stream too. The waste somehow got into the water and the people staying in the cabins must have drunk it. The waste caused mutations. It must have been contagious ‘cos the sheriff caught it."
Bagley let the words sink it.
"We dumped some waste and it infected some people, fucked ‘em up, mutated ‘em. They came to town for help and people shot ‘em. Thought they were bloody zombies for Chrissake. I’m so fucked. What are you in for?"
"Shooting fucking zombies," said Bagley.