The Crisis on Spieltruppestrasse


Chapter 1: The Kegelheim


18:00 ins Kegelheim. Wir haben es für zwei Stunden gebucht!


Oh, Friday! The message arrived on the Spieltruppestrasse chat from none other than The Hair, and everyone in the group was excited and looking forward to yet another fun night of Kegel in Berlin. 


In their house on Spieltruppestrasse no. 2, Buenjamon and Tiny Feet were getting ready. "We haven't played Kegel in a while!" remarked Tiny Feet. "Oh aye", confirmed Buenjamon with a warm smile. "It's going to be a night to remember!"


The two finished gathering their things and headed out the door and down the street to Spieltruppestrasse no. 8, where two of their good friends, Cubacado and Rifraf lived. Buenjamon and Tiny Feet approached the large wooden door and rang the bell. They could hear the dark tones resound through the entranceway of the old house and echo down the corridor. Rifraf's voice came through the speaker to the right of the door, "we will be down in just a minute."


10 minutes went by...then 20...then 30. "Rifaf sounded a little odd when he spoke, do you think they're ok?" asked Tiny Feet looking concerned. Buenjamon took a long draw from his cigar and looked up at the window where the light remained on. 


Before he could say anything, the room went dark and they heard footsteps rushing down the stairs. Cubacado and Rifraf burst out the door and apologized for the delay. "Let's get going truppe." 


The four took off down the street and headed to Spieltrupperstrasse no. 5 to pick up Pterodactyl and French Fry. Tiny Feet couldn't help but notice a worried expression on Cubacado's face. "Is everything ok?" she asked. Cubacado glanced up, "It's Rifraf. He's been acting a bit strange today. I can't quite explain it though." Tiny Feet looked over at Rifraf, who was chatting with Buenjamon about Kegel strategies. "He seems ok to me." 
"I don't know..." replied Cubacado with a shake in his voice. 


It was already 17:55 when they walked up to house no. 5. Pterodactyl and French Fry were supposedly ready to go but there wasn't a sign of anyone - the house was totally dark. The four still approached the blue front door and rang the bell. 


"BOOO!" a shout came from behind. Rifraf, Tiny Feet, and Buenjamon jumped back and Cubacado nearly fell off the porch. It was Pterodactyl and French Fry of course. French Fry was dressed as a giant strawberry and Pterodactyl wore a full US Army uniform - boots and all. Cubacado yelled at them, "Don't do that! I am already on edge tonight. Something strange is going on!" 


The group laughed and Buenjamon gave Pterodactyl a fake slap in the face for the scare. 
The six spieltruppe friends went out into the night, laughing and catching up in search of the Kegelheim. 


As they were nearing their favorite hangout spot, they heard a faint "heeeeeyyyyy" coming from the side. It was The Hair, down low to the ground, looking buff as always, running up to the friends, followed by Helen of Joy, twerking her way slowly up the sidewalk. There wasn't any music playing...she didn't need it. 


The Spieltruppe reached the Kegelheim, ordered their Grevensteiners vom Fass and one by one, filed down the narrow staircase into the Kegel basement. 


They wasted no time getting started. The teams were set, the drinks already nearing the second round, and the games underway. Rifraf, who normally won every time, wasn't having his best day. He was quieter than usual and was throwing constant gutterballs. 
But time flew by and they were having a blast together. After a few games, their two hour slot was coming to an end and French Fry noticed Rifraf going upstairs again. "Didn't you just go to the bathroom?" she inquired. "Yeah but I just need some air", responded Rifraf rather shortly. 


He came back down after about ten minutes and didn't say a word. The others continued playing and drinking. The clock was at 19:59 and The Hair announced that Helen of Joy would throw the last ball of the night. They were on their tiebreaker after two hours of playing and she needed to get at least 6 pins to win for her team. 


The room went silent and everyone watched as she danced to the start line, made a sexual gesture with the Kegel ball, and rolled it strongly down the lane. It curved up the side and nearly went into the gutter but came back around at the last second. Right at the moment the ball struck the pins, the clock ticked 20:00 and a massive BOOOOM came from above. 


Dust trickled down from the ceilings and the entire place rumbled fiercely. Each of the Spieltruppe friends, in their slightly drunken stupor, fell hard to the ground and the lights went out. 


The sounds and shaking quickly ceased. 30 seconds went by of pure silence until Pterodactyl let out a cough. He had been smoking quite a lot that evening. 
The lights flickered back on, revealing dust and smoke in the air. Pieces of the wall had torn off and the floor was covered in small debris. "Is everyone ok?" French Fry managed to murmur out and climb to her feet. 
The rest of the Spieltruppe muttered "yes, si, ja, si.." 


They all slowly tried to stand, Buenjamon helped Tiny Feet get up, as one of her tiny feet was stuck under a large piece of plank wood that had toppled over. 
"What the hell was that?" gasped The Hair. They all frantically asked each other the same question. Cubacado stood in the corner nervously saying to himself, "I knew something was going on. What is happening?" He reached into his pocket to pull out his phone. 
The lights dimmed and disappeared again. French Fry screamed. 
"It's ok, it's ok", said Pterodactyl anxiously, trying to calm her down. 
The eight of them sat quietly for a second until Cubacado broke the silence


"Ok, Google". 


Nothing.


"Ok Google." he repeated a second time. And a third. 


Still no response.


"My God," exclaimed Helen of Joy...  "there's no internet..." 


The lights flickered back on again. Pterodactyl said to the group, "let's get the hell out of here while we can see before the lights go out again." 
The group climbed over the bits of rubble and crawled up the stairs. Buenjamon, the Brave, went first as always. He peeked his head up over the floorboard and said, "oh shit". 
"What is it?" shouted Tiny Feet from below. 


They all climbed up and reached the floor of the bar to find it in complete disarray. Tables had been flipped, lights and posters had fallen off the walls and it looked as if no one had been there in weeks. "What the hell…?" 


They rummaged their way around the destruction and made it to the entrance door. The glass had been broken and what remained of the window was covered in bloodstains. Helen of Joy stepped back and threw up on an overturned dart board, which lay next to a broken chair on the ground. 


Buenjamon turned the door handle, also splattered with bits of blood and opened it to the outside. The Spieltruppe slowly crept out and gauged their surroundings. There was no one to be seen. It wasn't quite dark outside but nothing was open and not a single light. 
Trees were down, glass from cars spread across the pavement, small patches of fire, it looked like a war zone. 
They glanced around and then to each other but couldn't speak. What happened here? How can this be? 


They started walking back towards Spieltruppestrasse and Cubacado looked up at the buildings they passed. He saw a woman with a blue dress standing behind a closed window on the third floor of the building to their left. She was staring out at them. 
He looked to the rest of the group and said, "hey look there's a person." But when he turned back, the curtain had been shut and she was no longer visible. 
"C'mon Cubacado, don't mess with us right now!" yelled Tiny Feet and French Fry. "But..but.." 
They continued on, with no sign of life, hastily talking and hypothesizing about what could be going on.


Up ahead on the street corner they saw a man stammering about. "There's someone!" Helen of Joy smirked. They started to get closer and The Hair said, "oh great, we finally find someone and he's just some half-naked drunken idiot coming out from Kitkat." 
The man was walking rather oddly and appeared to be out-of-this-world belligerent. He was making disgusting sounds to himself and spitting all over the place. As the group slowly approached him, only about ten meters away, he looked up and stood still. His eyes gleamed red. 


His face was torn apart and he was missing a left ear and all of his hair. He wore what seemed to be the remains of a sex dungeon uniform, with handcuffs hanging loosely from his wrist. He let out a loud reething scream and sprinted towards them. 


"It's a Zombie!" screamed Pterodactyl. The group shouted out and jumped out of the way, just dodging the sickly undead creature. It attempted to grab French Fry by her strawberry costume. The Hair noticed a Pfand bottle on the ground and reacted fast. He picked it up and smashed it on the zombies' head. It only slowed it down, the zombie kept coming towards him as the others tried to stay back. 


With the broken end of the bottle, the Hair managed to stab the zombie in the face and he fell hard to the ground. "RAAHH", The Hair howled. 
"That's my man," said Helen of Joy to the others before slapping The Hair on the ass. 
"WHAT THE FUCK WAS THAT?" yelled French Fry. "WE SHOULD RUN!" 


The group picked up their pace and started to sprint to their homes. Cubacado looked up at the buildings and noticed more people behind closed windows, glaring down at them and shutting the curtains as they ran by. Buenjamon was trying to verbally work it all out while they were running and Rifraf was still surprisingly calm, despite all the chaos. 


Out of breath, they reached the end of their street. "Shit! Shit! What do we do?" asked Pterodactyl frantically. "Fuck this, I'm going home!" said Cubacado. He sprinted off towards house no. 8. 


"Damn!" said Rifraf, finally reacting to something. "I better go after him." He ran after Cubacado and they disappeared around the corner. 
"Let's get inside now!" shouted The Hair. The six of them ran past their neighbor’s houses. Tiny Feet noticed the little old man at house no. 7 was staring out his window. He was just closing it when she yelled to him, "Mr. Clark!!! What's going on?" 
"Didn't you hear the news??" he shouted back across the yard. He was so flustered that he couldn't get his words out properly. "Everyone must inside! Someone here made a virus! They infect people. The people don't just get sick! They become something else! Red eyes, thirst for blood! Run you, idiots! GET INSIDE!" 


They gasped and continued running towards their homes as Mr. Clark harshly shut the window.
The six of them managed to reach house no. 2. Buenjamon nervously pulled out the keys and the others almost trampled over him, clambering to get in. He slammed the door shut and they fell to the floor, breathing heavily, thoughts rushing through their heads at a mile a minute, and ringing in the ears which still hadn't gone away. 
Buenjamon eventually stood up and glanced outside, then looked back at the others, "we're safe for now."
Pterodactyl got to his feet, still wearing his Army outfit. "We're gonna get those zombie bastards." 


Meanwhile at house no. 8, Cubacado just made it through the door when Rifraf came running behind him. "Hey wait up," he said, trying to grab Cubacado's arm. Cubacado pulled away and ran up the stairs, "I can't deal with this right now. I need to lay down." Although it was still relatively early in the evening, relaxing and sleeping always helped Cubacado get through tough times. Rifraf didn't protest. 


The night grew darker. Rifraf was finishing his dinner alone at the table by candlelight, the power wasn't working. The only sounds were that of Cubacado's snoring upstairs, after several hours of tossing and turning before finally falling asleep. 
Rifraf glanced over to their basement door across the kitchen. It's a door they don't ever use, he's not even sure if Cubacado has been down there. He grabbed the key which was hidden behind a blue ceramic vase ornately decorating one of the shelves. 


He opened the door quietly and walked down into the darkness with the small candle holder, brushing off any spiderwebs that latched on. He reached the ground and came to a long wooden table which was surprisingly spotless. He rested the candle on the surface; its dim light revealing a rack over 2 meters long of test tubes and lab materials. He stared at them proudly and grazed his fingers lightly over the glass tops. He picked up one of the flasks and caught his reflection from the candlelight, with a wild gin on his face and eyes glimmering red. 


Chapter 2: The piercing noise


Back to Spieltruppestrasse no. 2, the candles were flickering, forming shapes and shadows that made everybody jump, thinking that someone else was in the room. The Hair, Helen of Joy and French Fry were sitting around the table, hypnotized by the dance of the candles’ flames, their thoughts far away from the room they were sitting in. Tiny Feet laid down on the sofa, looking worried and massaging one of her tiny feet, the one that got stuck at the Kegelheim. Pterodactyl couldn’t sit still, and was walking up and down the room, looking around the room without focus,  at some points stopping by the window to look outside, the only thing he saw was emptiness and quietness, his thoughts rumbling and wondering if what just happened an hour ago was real. 


Buenjamon was trying restlessly to communicate through one of his old walkie talkies. The harsh raspy buzz was the only thing keeping him hopeful,  he insisted that there must be someone out there trying to help them. “If I could just find the signal, just one signal, that we are not alone here…”


“I can’t believe that a zombie apocalypse is happening right now” whined Pterodactyl, looking up to the ceiling and shaking his head nervously,  “and I can’t believe that it is NOT happening in the States.” The five of them looked at him with eyes of incredibility. “I mean” he continued, now he finally stopped moving and fixed his eyes to his friends, showing a half proud smile, “at least there I could use all the artillery from my Uncle BillyBobby, he’s got all these collections of rifles and guns. We used to go to the back of his house and shoot at squirrels or rats. There’s also where I learned how to play the Banjo, he was a cliché redneck, uncle BillyBobby, haha…” he stopped for a minute, memories of his past running in his mind. “Anyways” he continued, “ all of ‘em guns would be damn useful at the moment. We could kill all of ‘em zombies and be done with it  by dawn” French Fry looked a bit concerned. Her eyes were full of questions and  her lips formed a thin line. She stood up and went towards Pterodactyl, both of her hands on her hips.  “You never told me you fired a gun before… to kill defenseless anim…” she was suddenly interrupted by a piercing loud noise coming from Buenjamon’s walkie talkie. He was so scared that the walkie talkie fell out of his hand. 


The striking sound was short, but enough to make the candles go off and stop anyone’s hearts. The six went into complete silence in the darkness.  They could only hear each other’s breathing. Finally, someone dared to talk.


 “What the hell was THAT” said the Hair, who was sitting on a chair next to Helen of Joy. “Sush”, said Tiny Feet. “I’ve heard that noise before. It was not a noise. It said something, didn’t you understand?” She was dead serious. Her eyes were moving fast, her mouth went dry. She felt cold, she couldn't say it. It was too terrifying to be true.  All the others, still speechless, looked at her gobsmacked. “Tiny Feet, are you telling us that THAT noise, was, in fact, someone, or something, trying to communicate with us?” said Helen of Joy, she was now sitting next to her on the sofa, taking her tiny feet on her lap. Her face was nothing but joy at the moment, her sexy and lascivious face gestures have been replaced now for worry, her eyebrows furrowed and her eyes were wide open.  


“Guys, there’s someone on the street” said Pterodactyl, who was standing by the window. “Look”. All the others but Tiny Feet, who stayed on the sofa, approached the window. “It’s Mr. Clark! It’s our neighbor!” shouted Tiny Feet, “Mr. Clark, GET OUT of the road! Mr. Cla…” but Buenjamon quickly put a hand on her mouth to make her shut. “Sush. He looks… odd.” 
Mr. Clark was not moving. He stood still, in the middle of the street. He was staring at the end of the road, his eyes were fixated into something that the rest could not yet see. “What is he doing?” whispered Helen of Joy, trying to look beyond to see if she could also see what he was staring at. She pressed her face in the cold glass window. “Do you see anything??” asked The Hair, apprehensive, he was behind her making little jumps also trying to reach Mr. Clark’s sight. But they could not see a thing. It was extremely dark outside. Then something happened. Mr. Clark had disappeared. “Where is he???” shouted French Fry, “I can’t see him! He’s not there anymore! Where’s he?? Damn, what happened!!” Pterodactyl hugged her, she was shaking, and he was too, but he could not reveal his panic at this moment. They needed to think, and fast.


“Guys…” said Tiny Feet from the back of the room… She was pointing at the other window, the one at the back of the house. “He’s in our backyard...he’s pointing….. at us” 


They all run to the back of the house, Buenjamon stayed with Tiny Feet on the sofa and muttered, sweetly, “Are you feeling ok my little munchkin?” “I don’t know… my tiny foot hurts and has grown bigger, look.” She uncovered her tiny foot and indeed, it had grown bigger. It was all swelled and blue. “I didn’t want to alarm the others, but I think I can’t move.” “It’s ok,” said Buenjamon. “You don’t need to move. I will get some ice” and he ran to the kitchen, placed in the opposite direction from where all the others were. 


“Why is he pointing at us?” asked The Hair. “I don’t know,” said Helen of Joy, “But he’s creeping me out. He’s just there, again, still. WHAT DO YOU WANT!!!” yelled Helen of Joy. Now they could see the oddness in  Mr. Clark. His face was plain, dead white, sweaty. He had a loathsome grin. But what stood out the most were his eyes. They were not human eyes. The pupils were dilated and they were injected in blood, making them look red. And he was crying. He was crying blood. French Fry, Pterodactyl, The Hair and  Helen of Joy were petrified at what they were seeing. Only the sharpening sound coming out of the walkie talkie made them move. 
The noise, this time, was earsplitting. It penetrated so harshly that they all had to cover their ears. It felt as if their heads were about to explode. The Hair’s ears started to bleed, drops of blood were covering his white T-Shirt. 


“Turn it off!!! TURN IT OFF!” yelled Helen of Joy to Buenjamon, but he was not in the room. “What the hell, It’s irritating!!” she continued angrily, “STOP IT! STOP IT!” she ran towards the walkie talkie, ready to smash it, but then it was clear. They all heard it. The message was unequivocal. The meaning of the noise, what Tiny Feet was so worried to say in the beginning, was sounding and echoing all over the house. It crawled to their minds through their spines, their skin full of goosebumps.


A deep, breathy dead voice was saying “kriegen euch… sie… euch… SIE KRIEGEN EUCH”, and a heavy, weighty dull sound followed by a crash came from the kitchen. 


Chapter 3: One Year Earlier


It was a Sunny Thursday morning on March 21st when Pterodactyl and Buenjamon started driving home after finishing a lengthy nocturnal photography session. It was the last supermoon of 2019 on the previous night, so both of them took the day off. They had been looking forward to it for a long time and went well prepared. While Pterodactyl had packed plenty of sandwiches stuffed with Spanish ham and salmorejo, Buenjamon spent almost two months worth of his net wage on a new telephoto lens only to photograph this celestial event. Although they were very tired and longing to arrive at home to finally cuddle up in the arms of their beloved princess french fries and Mrs. Tiny feet, they had broad smiles on their faces, being content about their successful imaging session. Neither did they know what menacing discovery their photos would unveil, nor that this might very well have been the last supermoon they were to witness.


Berlin was already bustling with life when they reached the city. People were on their lunch breaks, the streets were full of cyclists and Yaam already smelled like you know what, providing a calming effect on the people passing by. Meanwhile, in Spieletruppestraße No. 8 Rif Raf was enjoying his first cup of coffee, reading the news. The light shone brightly through the windows onto the first ruby-colored petals of his magnificent display of geraniums and he squinted while turning the page. He was alone, Cubacado headed to work long before Rif Raf got up. The roundup of his new paper, the crown jewel of his research on the use of AI in developing vaccinations for viral infections, was due. He was to present it at a conference in Washington DC in three and a half weeks time in front of his biggest audience yet. Rif Raf, on the other hand, was taking it easy. He had just passed his exams on instructing physical education and continued working half time as a chemistry teacher until the end of the term. While flying over the headlines, one article caught his eye: "polls show that president Trumpet has a high chance of staying in office, controversial allegations are disregarded by the general public" Rif Raf shook his head, frowned and turned the page. Life was good right now, so why bother?


Late noon and still haven’t eaten. Helen of Joy was always losing track of time once she was diving into her writing. The quick, certain and relaxing sounds of her keyboard under her fingers, the smell of coffee and basically nothing else surrounding her than her quick thoughts, were the favorite part of her job. Of course, the research was always interesting, moreover now, with the new task that her boss assigned her with: Tracing Nazis in Leadership Position who had fled after World War 2, but, for her, it was definitely the writing of articles, what always made her job to be her passion. During her studies in linguistics, she came to realize that she enjoyed more reading articles about historical events or politics and always dreamed about being that person who writes them one day. Nice memories of those ones. Being together with Tiny Feet and French Fries, studying in the same University the same career.
“CLANK!”.
A cup of coffee on her desk.
-Hey, Helen of Joy, its almost 2 o clock, you know how our boss tends to get angry when we don’t do the lunch pause at the same time!- her colleague Klaus, always aware that Helen of Joy tends to forget the time.
-Thanks, Klaus, I will go in a minute, I promise.- said Helen of Joy so quickly as she could, not to forget her last sentence in the article she was writing: “…Many families still remain without knowing the fate of their ancestors during the Nazi era in Germany. It is as if the earth had swallowed them.”


She took Klaus’ cup, always forgotten there and left a perfectly circled stain on her desk.


Lunchtime was always busy. All the employees shared a small kitchen with just enough utensils to cook something quick, a wooden table and a couple of benches. If everyone paused at the same time, they would be very uncomfortable, but it was not an option to contradict her boss.


As she shoved a spoonful into her mouth of her gorgeous handmade poke-bowl, her boss bumped in the kitchen.
-Guten Appetit Helen of Joy - always protocol first.
-Dankeschön - what would he want now? She thought.
-We have assembled an extraordinary meeting to discuss a matter of your concern. Related to the research we have been doing for months. It is important. There will be decisions to be made. At 3 in room B. -  he dictated calmly. Herr Schroeder was always to the point.
-Alright then. Can I at least know what it is about? - she hated it when people didn’t share enough information. Normally she was the only woman invited to such meetings and always the last to realize what was going on. He rolled his eyes, but answered.
-We found a few recordings from the Mediathek that sounded a bit odd. More details in the meeting. Bis dann.
She looked at him as he left the kitchen feeling a bit angry about his answer, but repeating to herself that he was a good person.
Anyway, back to business, her poke-bowl was especially tasty this time. She should tell The Hair that smaller pieces of spring onions are the actual secret to this taste, and thank him for his advice.
“SSSSAP!”.
The sliding of a newspaper over the wooden kitchen table was, again, distracting her from the orgasmic flavors.
-What the…?- she reacted.
-I thought it might interest you. Read it carefully, there is a lot of important information written there, so I advise you to pay attention to detail.- said Klaus after winking at her graciously and leaving.


She always found it amazing how Klaus could be so serious at work during the day and a queen during the night. Tiny Feet also worked with him for a while after their studies together and both thought that he had a superpower. He really seemed like two separated people in one.
Last big spoon of Poke-Bowl. Glanced at the old rounded clock over the kitchen door. It was 2:50 pm. Ok, let's read this:






  

After 20 minutes inside the meeting Helen of Joy was ready to make her last proposal. They have presented some old recordings from different radio stations and it was true that a few of them were sounding really strange. They didn’t sound…human. Noises of pops, clicks and broken audio waveforms were combined with a strange constant hidden code or language (if it could be called that). As her boss and the rest of the men present in the room were already thinking about hiring an Audio Engineer for the job, she let her coffee on the table and stood up.
-I know the perfect person for this job!


---


Tiny Feet was desperately trying to contact her personal shoe vendor. Since there were no shoes for her keychain-sized feet in the city, she had to hire a professional expert on the matter. British, with huge black and thick glasses and a size of 1.48m, Miss Fairbairn always found manufacturers, who with surplus materials would help her build shoes for people like Tiny Feet. She had quite a business going on. Of course, none of this would have been possible without the help of Mr. Clark, a blessed neighbor who one day, when he found TinyFeet walking with her furry and wild little bare feet down the street, wanted to help her and called his second cousin to put them in contact. Since then, Buenjamon, who loved those wild feet from the first day he saw them, has always been a little sad. He needed to accept that in life there are different periods and phases and that the wild and natural one, where he and tiny feet walked through the streets half-naked, was already past. “Times are changing…” he always used to say, with his deep voice and a sigh, totally naked inside their flat.


After lunch, TinyFeet always made some calls and sent some emails. She caught up on all the gossip Miss Fairbairn was telling her about the neighborhood and the latest news in the press about the lost nazi rockets. She then decided it was time to get out of her cubicle at the office and go to hand out some papers to the department of linguistics. It was just then that her phone rang again.
* Miss Fairbairn, we cannot continue talking all day about little feet.
* Mmmmm little feet, you do know what I like …- a desiring voice answered.
* Helen of Joy! hahaha, sorry I thought you were someone else. Tell me how are you?
* I don’t have too much time to talk.- she said.- But look, I have a job for you. Let me send you everything with more details by email. You will have several attachments with the recordings. My boss will speak to yours for this collaboration. I said I knew the best audio and decoding expert so I'm counting on you!
* Okay, okay, send me everything and I'll lend you an ear right away. - Tiny Feet hung up.


---


* And now... aaaaaaall together!


Children, and teachers included, did the last yoga poses, while listening to the beautiful heavenly voice of French Fries humming the last part of the session.
In KitaLandia teachers and students worked in a hippie community full of colors and fruity shapes, where, once you walked through the door, it seemed that time stopped and everything which moved was doing so, but in slow motion. It was a magical place for young and old, children and teenagers alike.


All the protagonists of this story were sure that KitaLandia breathed something dense from the ventilation pipes, since each of them had experienced the same sensations when entering this colorful building.


Once all the students of the School came back to their classes, French Fries took her chance to eat something very quick in the kitchen. She was opening her box full of well-shaped and peeled potatoes when her colleague entered through the door.
-Someone calls you on the phone French Fries.
-Now?
In KitaLandia, the internet, smartphones and any type of online contact was strictly prohibited. Minimum technological devices.


After giving the three rigorous hugs to her colleague, French Fries removed a piece of potato skin between her teeth graciously and answered the phone. It was Tiny Feet, she sounded quite excited about a project and wanted a bit of her help. French Fries was the best during their studies together and it seemed that Tiny Feet could use some of her skills.


---


Tiny Feet was wandering between her sound devices in her small cubicle at the office. Audio oscillators were showing the wavetables of the sound. The hum of the recordings was filling the place. The tic-tac of the clock on the wall was freaking her out so she tried to reach it to switch it off after placing one chair onto another one.
-Tiny Feet, what are you up to? - said French Fries looking over her glasses to her also small sized friend - You know it is a lost battle, we will never reach it.
-Arhrhg.. I can’t wait. What do you think?- she asked, impatiently, about the recordings.
-Mmmmm… -wondered French Fries for a second- how could I say it….- she always took a bit of time to build her sentences, Tiny Feet already checked the clock again and had time to realize that she hadn’t properly cleaned the floor before her friend entered the room. She took the opportunity to move her foot to slide an old pizza piece under the shelve- it is… definitely a message. I can’t identify the language though, but I can 100% say that in these recordings there is someone or something using language.- French Fries answered.
Both looked at each other with a little bit of concern.
-Patterns don’t lie. I think you definitely should give it a try so that you can hear it better,
-Alright then. I knew you would identify it. In the linguistics department at the office, they didn’t even check the patterns.- Tiny Feet smiled proud of her friend.
 
Sometime later, just before Tiny Feet was switching off the lamp to go back home, she saw that one of the edited and sampled recordings just finished being exported.
She took the mouse.
Click.
Play.


Chills rose up her spine as she listened to the decoded audio.
She picked up the mouse again, turned off the computer, and before turning off the gooseneck lamp, she doubted if she would ever share this information with someone or better forget it forever.


---


At the same time in another part of the city, The Hair reactivated the WhatsApp chat he had once created to organize ping pong matches. Rif Raf, just having finished the two lessons, which were on his schedule, immediately confirmed his presence for 6:15 pm in Volkspark Friedrichshain. The Hair was happy to get out and move. He just touched down after flying back in from playing a 5 hour DJ set on the Burning Zombie Festival. "There's nothing like a quick round of ping pong to cope with the jetlag." he thought. "Let's see if Buenjamon and Pterodactyl will be up for it too, they're always so hard to get a hold of."


Buenjamon noticed his phone vibrating next to him on the desk. He didn't pick it up though. There were few things that could distract him once he was deep into his photo editing process and his phone was none of them. After examining his work and having decided that it was worth being shown to the public, he glanced at his mobile. It was blinking ferociously, indicating he had been in the zone for way too long: five missed calls from The Hair and the WhatsApp messages mentioned before. Having spent the afternoon inside and in front of his computer he welcomed the “Hair” idea and got ready. Before unlocking his bike, he quickly chose several hashtags to accompany his supermoon photo and pressed upload.


When he arrived at the park, Rif Raf, The Hair and Pterodactyl were already at it. Rif Raf, a quick and skilled player himself, was frantically trying to return balls flying at him with lightspeed. The Hair's topspin was not to be underestimated. Pterodactyl tried to keep count but was continuously losing focus, watching the magnificent golden curls of The Hair waving rhythmically each time he hit the ball. It was a sight to behold. Buenjamon was just in time to admire the spectacle for a good couple of seconds before Rif Raf unexpectedly ended the game in his favor with a series of two deceitful backspins that no-one saw coming. Pterodactyl, the undefeated and champion of the group, was itching to start the next game, but the four of them together hadn't seen each other in a while and a good chat was long overdue. A couple of beers in and two rounds of ping pong later, The Hair asked: "Guys, by the way! How was your photo session last night?". Pterodactyl answered, sporting a heroic tone: "It was a great adventure! We were sitting by the fire, sharpening our swords. It must have been midnight when all of a sudden a werewolf appeared. It was as big as a grizzly and...".


Buenjamon absently listened, eagerly waiting for the right moment to enter the conversation. When The Hair said: "I know it was only last night, but do you have any pictures to show?", Buenjamon yanked out his phone, saying: "I edited the supermoon photo already and uploaded it to Instagram before coming over. Wait, let me show you!" He opened the app. "hmm, that's odd, the picture didn't go through. It says something about I can't upload it 'cause there's a conflict with the community guidelines... weird, it's a frigging photo of the moon. Wait for a second, I have it saved on the phone too. There you go, check it out! The new lens is a banger, it's so sharp.". The Hair inspected it thoroughly. "Man this is beautiful. Look at all those craters and the detail within! But wait, what are these bright dots and that fine halo right at the edge of the moon? These are not normal, are they?". "Oh, I didn't notice, what the hell. It must be the lack of sleep... This looks very odd indeed." Buenjamon responded after The Hair gave him his phone back.


---


In the very same moment on the other side of the world, a grey-haired man, who must have been in his fifties, tapped on his colleague's shoulder with a concerned but ice-cold expression on his face. They stood in a dimly lit, windowless office in Langley, just a few kilometers northwest of Washington DC. He leaned forward to support himself on the desk and pointed at the computer monitor with his other hand. "That was close again, too close. The amount of pictures is rising by the minute." The man next to him had an equally intimidating appearance although he wore a slightly oversized suit. "I know Agent Z, and by now the activity has come to a point, where it is difficult to be overlooked," he said after placing his cup of black coffee back on the desk. "Call the president!"




Chapter 4: Awaking


Bright sunlight and a fierce, pointing headache made Rifraf slowly opened his eyes, realizing that he was lying half-naked on the bathroom floor. Still strongly trying to remember what just happened in the last hours, he heard Cubacado approaching their paradise-like bathroom, or better called, "Wellness Oasis." Hastily standing up and looking into the mirror, he saw his face chalk white and his eyes underlined with big red rings. He was just shoving the second load of water up into his face when Cubacado entered. “Good morning cariño!” he greeted him, with a wide sleepy smile "I didn’t hear you get up, I must have had a super stone-like sleep. But who wonders, after I ate that shitload of guacamole you made yesterday before I laid down” he said while touching at his perfect 6 pack stomach.


The Cubacarafas had a huge avocado tree in their garden where Rifraf used to go every Sunday morning to pick them up with his big, strong hands. "Those were good and sexy times back then," Cubacado thought, staring out the window at what was now left of the tree in the garden, seeing it bending down sadly without any leaves nor fruits. “And on top of that, we seem to have what is called a zombie apocalypse, right? Or did I just dream that?” asked Cubacado, looking at Rifraf who still did not turn around or said anything.


“I wish you did”, Rifraf finally answered, still staring at himself oddly in the mirror.


“C’mon babe, let's take a long and refreshing shower and then we try to connect with the rest of the Truppe to figure out better what’s  going on here.”


“Ehm, no darling, just go ahead, I will prepare some coffee and check up on something…” 


He left without even looking at Cubacado and made his way to the Kitchen, mumbling unidentifiable words. ”Weird….super weird...” Cubacado thought. In their more than 10 years lasting, lovely and powerful relationship, he couldn’t think of only one day that Rifraf denied a shower together in their Tropical little Paradise. He dropped his silk bathing coat and turned on the water.


——


"Holaaaaaaaa, buenos dias! Wake up! Sun is shining in apocalyptic  Berlin!” The Hair giggled. 
Helen of Joy woke up, The Hair poking her in the hips while kissing her softly on the cheek and jumping up and down on her while his butt was shaking like the tail of a cheerful and overexcited dog.
“What the hell is wrong with you, still waking up like that in the middle of all this?”, she pretended to be annoyed by him but deep inside worshipping him for maintaining morning rituals and a bit of normality in this weirdness. She was just about to turn around and give him a smiley kiss as the living room door opened and Buenjamon entered, wearing nothing but a kilt, a climbing helmet and a pickle for Ice expeditions in his hand, yelling “I’m ready to smash some zombie’s heads, c’mon, time to wake up!”
It was good to see that also the rest of the Truppe didn’t lose their sick sense of humor as Tiny Feet, Pterodactyl and French Fry also appeared behind him hinging into the room, silly laughings at the ready. 
Gathering around the massive, round table where they normally held nightlong board game events, Tiny Feet recapped: “What do we know? Well, the world is not the same anymore since we reached the surface again after our kegelround. Everything is destroyed and people are wether behaving awkwardly or even showing undeniable symptoms of zombie-mutation.” She stopped to look for some confirmation. The others nodded at her, wanting her to continue. "Further”, she continued "we have a piercing and crackling noises via radio hissing, and..” 
“Hold on, hold on a second!”, Helen of Joy interrupted, nervously. “Guys... I don’t want to jump into conclusions and sound strange... but I was suddenly reminded of the audio-files that we tried to analyze about a year ago, do you remember?” She said, looking at Tiny Feet with a hopeful but also terrifying sight.
Tiny Feet suddenly turned pale and could barely breathe as the moment of decoding the last audio in her work cubicle rushed through her head again. She pushed that day aside so hard that she almost forgot about what she was just hearing. "Impossible, that cannot be connected", she thought, knowing already that it all made so much more sense now…


“Ok, ok”, Pterodactyl muttered. “Can you guys catch us up on that? I remember that my little Fry here was pretty disturbed and feeling uneasy that day but we all thought later that this lead was, in the end, going nowhere.”He looked at French Fry, with a face asking for some answers. “Don’t look at me”, said French Fry. “I thought I was helping Tiny Feet with one of her VR games, had no idea it was actually connected to anything from real life.” Then both of them looked intrigued to Tiny Feet. “What was all of it about?” said French Fry while pouring some water into everyone’s glasses “We might be in an apocalypse, but let’s not forget about our vitals.” She then urged everybody to drink the whole glass of water. Then, when everybody was finished, Tiny Feet could explain the rest of the story. 
“That’s what I told you, I know,  am very sorry for keeping that from you guys”, confessed Tiny Feet with a guilty expression on her face. “But I was just so creeped out at that moment, and couldn’t really believe that it was real... so I just forced myself to forget about that audio in order not to worry anyone. We were all having the summer of our lives together, shaping our lives and settling down in this beautiful city.” She stopped and looked dreamy, her thought into that unforgettable and joyful summer. "Anyway, after running all possible decoding programs on the patterns of the noises, the audio said exactly the same what we just heard yesterday through the walkie-talkie….. Sssieee krrriegen e e euchhhh!!!”


Everyone was petrified and shock-staring at Tiny Feet. Buenjamon, who was famous for keeping cool and grounded thoughts even in tough situations, finally broke the silence. “A ver! Tiny feet, there’s no reason to feel bad for keeping that from us, we all understand your motivation and we are more than glad that you shared this now with us.” Everyone came back from their petrification, nodded and smiled at her. “Furthermore, I think it is time to look back to every event in the past year that seemed a little odd and out of normality for us. For instance, Pterodactyl and I also had irregularities in our pictures of the moon one day!” “I remember!”, yelled The Hair, shaking a little bit of dust off his curls still from yesterday’s crush. “And it was impossible to upload the pictures that day right?”, French Fry noticed. “Yes, and soon after that day, all social media platforms broke down and never recovered till now…” remarked Pterodactyl.


“Ok friends”, Helen of Joy jumped in with her notorious nosey, investigative and informative hungry journalist look on her face. “I think it’s time to twerk our way to the Harriena-Headquarters. It all takes shape slowly, also thinking about my latest investigations on the missing nazi rockets. I gathered all the notes and files on that matter in the North-Wing of our castle. I bet if we share the work and go all through that again, we will find the key to solve this crisis.” she explained. But then she suddenly remembered  "Fuck. We also have an Airbnb guest at our place. We have to hurry up before everything might be lost.”


“Let’s get ready, pronto pronto!” hurried The Hair, “and let's pick up the rest of the Truppe on the way. Equip yourselves with something to use as a weapon, guys” he said while grabbing one of Buenjamon's beloved kitchen knives, "this will be our hardest stroll from one hood to the real hood - or whatever is left of it. And who knows if Mr. Clark is still creeping around and what has become of him…”


The Truppe started to get ready looking for anything that was sharp, pointy or heavy enough to defend themselves.


Hidden from the rest, Buenjamon went to the bathroom. “It’s nothing”, he thought. “Calm down. You don’t need to worry the rest”. Last night, while he was picking up the ice for his beloved munchkin and the others were freaking out with Mr. Clark’s sick appearance, he kept the reason why the kitchen window crashed open. It was not a mere accident. He roughly bandaged a little scratch in his left, well-build arm and hid it with a long sleeve sweater. “It’s nothing”, he repeated to himself while looking at his face at the mirror, then headed back to the others with a little forced seeming smile.


——


As Cubacado left the Spa area, bringing a fresh breeze of lemongrass flavor with him, his heart stopped and he couldn’t believe what just appeared to be happening. The door to the outside stood wide open, and an indistinctive smell came from the basement and his second-half Rifraf was gone...




Chapter 5: Off to no. 29


Cubacado went down to the basement for the first time in months. The smell of chemicals was strong. The only light was coming from a couple of candles almost down to the wick. There wasn't much there, just a note on the table. 
-----


No one took the lift down that morning. On a regular non-apocalyptical day, someone would race down the stairs, trying to outrun the others on the lift. Now, they didn't have the time nor were they in the mood for games. The Hair, Helen of Joy, Tiny Feet, Buenjamon, French Fry and Pterodactyl took the stairs down. They were glad every time they found a new set of steps that take them out of reality - at least for a few precious seconds. 


The Hair, who was leading the herd, got to the front door, that was once painted in crimson red. Now you could hardly see it, although it was a giant door, it was all wrapped with stickers and posters; some of them quite bizarre. The one with the nipples was hilarious. 


He was about to grab the handle but then he hesitated and turned around. 


“We got this. Just stay together guys, ¿vale?” he uttered trying to gather all the courage he could possibly find. His friends nodded back with a lack of enthusiasm, and The Hair noticed that they needed a bit more.


“We´re going out there and we´ll find out what´s going ON!!” This time, his firm voice resonated in the hall and made their bodies vibrate. Helen of Joy was once again astonished; just when she thought she couldn't fall more for the Hair, she did yet again. She walked, determined, up to him, fixing her eyes on his and kissed him freely. 


“We´ll beat the shit out of each motherfucking zombie we run into” continued the Hair even more excited than before.
“ARE YOU WITH ME?” he shouted as he lifted the kitchen knife to the ceiling. 
“ARE YOU WITH ME”, he asked again. Without a shred of fear left in them, the others, holding their improvised weapons as high as they could, yelled something incomprehensible back and yet - full of meaning. They were ready now. 


They needed to squint as they stepped out. The end of the world that they knew until now might be approaching, but at least it was a sunny day in Berlin. The group of friends walked down the pavement dodging all kinds of wreckage. Tiny Feet stopped all of a sudden. 


“Are you ok Munchkin?” Buenjamon asked. 


She was staring at what was left of their beloved ice cream place. The wooden bench where they used to hang out outside was torn into pieces, covered by massive shards of glass from the window. The chalkboard, though, still remained standing. However, the list of available flavors was replaced by a disturbing “Bleib zu Hause” propaganda poster.


“How long were we at the kegelheim for?”, she muttered visibly upset.
“That's a good point”, Buenjamon reckoned.
“This couldn't have happened in a couple of hours. No way”, Helen of Joy said as she crossed over to the other side of the street. She stripped the poster off the board and folded it into a small square.
“Every piece of information counts” she sentenced, putting it away between her breasts. 


It was when they were reaching the Spaeti in the corner when Pterodactyl said to French Fry:
“Hey little Butt, I´m just going to run into the Spati real quick to get some papes...”.
“Are you fucking kidding me?” she responded, not letting him finish talking. 
“It will only take one second, I promise”, he said, while walking back towards the Spaeti. She rolled her eyes.


Pterodactyl had been inside there a million times in the last five years and yet, he could hardly recognize it. The place was a complete disaster. Although it seemed deserted, he called out to check if anyone was there. 


“Yusuf! You there? Kasi?”


Nothing. 


Yusuf, a middle-age Turkish man, was religiously behind his counter every day from 8 a.m till 11 p.m., ready to receive his clients with the sincerest smile of all. And Kasimir, his dog, would always come out to greet you, whether you were a stranger or not. 


There were just a few things left on the shelves. Luckily for Pterodactyl there were some OCB Slim packages standing in one of the shelves of the cabinet behind the counter. Pterodactyl went around it not expecting to find Mr. Clark crouched down on the floor. Kasi, or what was left of him, was there too, lifeless in his hands, both spattered with the dog´s blood. 


Pterodactyl reacted quickly, hitting him hard on the back with the heavy metal bar Buenjamon used to train at home with. Then he sprinted out, slamming the door behind him. 


"Run, run, it's Mr. Clark!!" shouted Pterodactyl at the others.


His friends turned immediately around but didn't move an inch. Pterodactyl, confused, stopped and turned as well. Stupefied, they all witnessed how Mr. Clark couldn't manage to open the door. He kept crashing his head against the door window like an idiot. It wasn't funny though. 


The distinctive sound of a vehicle approaching at great speed distracted them from the surreal scene. What appeared to be Rifraf's van was heading in their direction. They all leaned against the wall and squeezed their eyes. An intense smell of burnt rubber followed the squealing sound of the brakes. It was Cubacado. "Get in the van! Come one! quick!" he screamed.


They all did as they were told without hesitation. They didn’t have any other choice. Mr. Clark just figured out how to open the door and Kasi was right behind him, eager to rush outside.


“Wow, that was close, thanks, man. Where is Rifraf?” asked Helen of Joy concerned. 
“Is everybody ok?” Cubacado ignored her. “Yes, yep, sí, mmm, thank you” were the answers.
“Did he attack any of you? Bite you?” he kept prying. 
“No, no, we are fine. Where is Rifraf?” Buenjamon was intrigued, and he wasn’t the only one. 
“Let’s go somewhere safe first. Where should I drive to?” he was definitely upset, so they didn’t insist anymore.
“Drive to our place Cubacado, we might find some clues there.” replied the Hair.


French Fry noticed Pterodactyl was very quiet, thoughtful, far away from here. She held his hand tightly and questioned him with a gaze. 


“He was eating Kasi. Mr. Clark was eating the dog”, he managed to say with a trembling voice. Everyone in the van heard it, but no one dared to speak. There wasn’t really much to say.


They arrived at no. 29, the castle, and rushed inside. Tiny Feet was feeling much better, it didn’t hurt anymore or at least, that is what she said. She and Helen of Joy didn't waste any time. Within a couple of minutes, they had gathered all the documents they considered had something to do with this and placed them on the beautiful wooden floor of the office. 


Meanwhile, the Hair looked around, searching for anything that could be useful to block the front door. Cubacado, Pterodactyl, and Buenjamon were in the kitchen, according to French Fry it was time to drink some water. 


Buenjamon took another chance on the walkie-talkie. He switched it on. There wasn’t any signal, but the drilling noise sounded again. It echoed throughout the entire house, they covered their ears. Buenjamon let the walki fall to the floor. It smashed into pieces and the horrifying sound ceased. 


“What happened?” asked Tiny Feet and Helen of Joy in unison as they hurried into the kitchen. The Hair was coming behind them too. 
“It was the walkie-talkie, but this time it sounded more like a cry” reported Buenjamon. “I believe it won’t happen again” he added looking at the pieces of the walkie scattered on the floor. 


The newspaper cutout that Helen of Joy was holding in her hand caught Pterodactyl attention. It was the article about the missing rockets.


“Wait a second”, he said, and then he took it from her and examined it closely. Then he showed it to Buenjamon. 
“What the hell?” responded a puzzled Buenjamon. 
The others couldn’t handle the suspense and yelled rapidly: “What is it? What is it?” 
“We’ve seen those rockets before. A year ago I…” 


But Buenjamon was interrupted. Cubacado, that had been holding it for a while, couldn’t take it anymore. He burst into tears. 


“Cubacado I know there’s something you’re not telling us. It’s ok, we understand, but you gotta tell us so we can help you”, said French Fry softly.


He searched nervously for something in his pocket and handed it to them. It was Rifraf’s handwriting.
  





Never was it that quiet in that kitchen before. They were devastated. Their dear friend was gone and they weren’t sure if they would see him again. 


Pterodactyl needed a break from all that was going on. He went to one of the designated windows to smoke the one joint he had left. It was right after he took the second hit when he saw it. 


There were dozens of them, right there on the street. Hundreds of bloodshot eyes looking right up at him…




Chapter 6: A clear skyline 


6:00 it was Friday morning and as usual Rifraf woke up earlier than Cubacado, he sat down for a minute on his side of their king's wooden bed, which they got for free, as usual, in eTrade-Kleinanzeigen. Light was slightly coming through the bedroom from the Bathroom’s window; it was indeed a Beautiful day. Cubacado noticed his partner, pulled the facemask up just enough to take a quick glance at his smart watch,
-           What are you doing? Babbled with his exotic lips still numb from the hours asleep.
-           I have to go school, uttered Rifraf shortly.
-           But aren't Fridays when you start around midday? Replied Cubacado almost indistinctly.
-           Yes, normally, but today I got to prepare something for the Sportfest. What the hell, what’s with this grilling? You know I hate waking up early; I just got to go sooner today. Answered Rifraf pretty agitated.
-           Good morning to you too, uttered Cubacado while putting his facemask back and turning around.
 
There was no need for that thought Cubacado. Rifraf had been under stress in the last weeks. Apparently there was a colleague of his in the department of chemistry at the school, who was giving him a rough time. He had been calling him lately almost every evening and he seemed to feel quite annoyed about it. His golden brown skin partner had been noticing it but Rifraf would not say a word about it and the conversation always took place in German, so there was no chance Cubacado could get much of it but the name of this bastard. Besides, his pale boyfriend would always slam the door of their beloved Spa-Bathroom after him to talk to this annoying Herr Schultz.
 
After the second cup of coffee and with Cubacado still in his bed, Rifraf stood for some minutes before the window of their rainforest-like Kitchen, look at the beautiful pink clouds on top of a magnificent blue sky while finishing his third belegtes Brötchen and said to himself very sadly but determined. “Isn’t it ironic?, what a day to be turned into a hell. But what has to be done…, fuck me, it’s gonna be done”.
 
He did not lose any more second, took his backpack, put his voice cancelling headphones on, played System of a Down radio on, “voll-gas” said to himself and rushed into the cellar, took some sample tubes, a metal box and speeded off the building with his red racing bike. Streets were already full of life, people were very happy on a sunny Friday morning while Rifraf was heading to Ostkreuz dodging bikes, cars, buses and trams, left the bike near the station, got into a Späti and came out with two bottles of Apperitivi Bianco. Run to the station, got to the stairs and jumped energetically every three steps, reaching finally the platform where the S42 would take him to school yet this morning he took the S41. He was definitely not going to the school today.
 
9 am. Guten Morgen Frau Wandi! Shout Rifraf as he saw her opening the Kneipe.
-           Hey na? How are you doing this beautiful day? Uttered she with a broad smile. She was wearing high-hip jeans, boots, a Freddy Mercury top and a flurry spring coat. She still had a hand on the shutters.
-           Pretty good thanks, answered Rifraf trying to look as normal and happy as possible. Und Ihnen?
-           Come on Rifraf, yes I left the school and now I own a Kneipe with a KegelBahn. But we are still friends right? I don’t like that you treat me like a Frau.
-           Hahahaha, it was a joke! alright then Maraia, thanks a lot for letting me prepare the Kegel for tonite. My friends are very excited to play again and I want to surprise them.
-           And I am glad you are gonna bring them here. So, what’s the plan? What are you gonna do then?
 
“… the plan” thought to himself while going down the narrow stairs with walls full of neon lights, “you would not believe it”. – ehmm well, It’s a surprise right?
-           Alright Mr. Mystery but please do not turn it into a Bondage cellar!!
 
He loved that place since the very first moment he stepped inside. Luckily his friend did not change an inch of it. He went by the wall where the clock was, opened the metal box and took the same exact model out of the case. He swapped them and took a deep breath, “puff.. alright, step two”.
 
-           Done! Shouted him coming up the staircase.
-           Already? Said quite surprised the red hair lady.
-           Yes, it was about hiding a thing they have to find, a piece of cake. Hey so did you already get the beer barrel for the meeting? This is on me this time but please do not say a word ok?
-           Do not worry! Yes, there you have it. I’ll just set it when you guys enter this 70’s-after-wallfall-universe that I now own. Said Maraia while turning around and dancing gracefully across the Kneipe to the Music of Queen’s “I want to break free”, she was definitely in love with that place. “What a pity Maraia, I am so sorry” thought Rifraf while unnoticed adding the liquid content of the sample tubes into the Barrel. “Done”.
-           Bis spaeter meine Liebe! They hugged themselves for then seconds, enough for the serotonin to be relieved and he left. He needed that hug.
 
 
 
A year ago Benjamon was together with the hair, Helen of Joy and Rifraf hanging new curtains in the very same window. They were purple and were matching fantastically with the whole decoration of the room. Ten different lamps hanging, a dj-set on a little stage and all surrounded by comfortable sofas, chairs, loudspeakers, a piano and many plants… In the middle plenty of room were they used to dance till the moment the fucking complains of the annoying neighbor were to be heard. It seemed ages since those days and nothing was making sense, they have lost one of the Family and were in a dead city, all of a sudden. He was taking a look outside as the day turned into night when he heard it.
 
-           “Fuuuuck, oh shit! Guys come over here!!” It was Pterodactyl trying not to be too loud. The whole crew was at the window within five seconds. Tiny Feet and French Fry were on their knees looking from the bottom of the window, Helen of Joy and The Hair on the right side of the window, Pterodactyl and Buenjamon on the left side and the saddest of all, Cubacado, still shocked, stood in the middle. In another time this would have been a great picture. All eyes wide-open full of fear and astonishment.
-           “Ay dios mío”, “Oh Gott, oh Gott”, “fucking shit!”  Exclaimed as they reacted, the scene was shocking. Dozens of lost souls standing in the street looking at them, still, barely babbling noises and letting spittle coming out from their mouths, some of them were missing halt of it, some had no arms, no feet or had with broken bones and half burned clothes, black clothes as they were to try to get to Berghain, not this time.
-           “How many are there?” “Why are they still and looking at us? Said Helen of Joy nervously. “They.., they don’t see us” claimed French Fry. “You could be right Frenchy” added Tiny feet.
-           “shhhhhh!! guys I have no idea if they can see us or not, but I do not want to check out if they can also hear us or smell us. Stay still and talk carefully” claimed Buenjamon trying to calm down his friends while closing the curtains but letting a spot big enough to keep watching. “Ptero-doc please keep the watch, by now they are not moving, just say something if they do.”
-           “Hey people, we need to trace a plan in case they try to come upstairs” added The Hair while holding Helen of Joy’s hand and sitting on a chair. They always had a lot of chairs in every room, so that everyone could feel comfortable at their place.
 
They gather together around the squared shabby chic table while Pterodactyle
kept the watch.
 
-           “Come on guys let’s try to come up with ideas, everyone brings something up and let’s see what comes up to the table” said a very willing Tiny Feet.
-           “I say we stay watching and try to make it till the morning, at the broad light there was not so many of them, I guess they come at night mostly right? Like in the movies? I mean, I am not going out there with those things on the streets” added French Fry.
-           “I agree” added Helen of Joy, “we don’t wanna leave the castle, right love?”, “well” responded The Hair, “I think there is no need to be worried here, it is safe, we can build a barricade at the door and make us strong here, I vote for that”. Cubacado was not reacting at all, he could not come up with any ideas, everything was still too recent for him, Rifraf was gone. Tiny Feet could feel it and took Cubacado’s hand, “Hey, no worries. I am sure he is gonna be back”, “yes, or we will find him como que me llamo Helen of Joy!” said vigorously with a broad smile. Tiny Feet continued, “Well, and what do you say Buenjamon?” looking at his husband waiting for an answer. He was in deep thoughts and did not think to agree.
 
-           “I say we take every tool, bar, knife, pan or whatever feels good to defend ourselves and escape. Yeah I know it seems crazy but you know, if the moment comes and they come upstairs what are we gonna do? Wait till they break in and die? There are way too many!”, “But how the hell are we gonna avoid them? They are everywhere, they will kill us, or turn us into beasts or whatever they do to the living people.” Claimed French Fry with the approval of the rest of the table who were nodding, “Exactly, I see no escape” added The Hair.
 
-           “Benjamon is right” this time was Pterodactyle with a very calm and firm voice. He was finishing off his joint staring at every single zombie; he gave the last smoke before continuing. The scent of green power was filling the room and the light of the full moon let see the smoke coming out from his mouth and crossing the window side to side. “We’ll go to the roof, these altbaus are always somehow connected and this guys do not seem to able to climb nor jump. We can do it and we must. They are moving towards the main door”
 
A rush of fear and adrenaline run inside their bodies and minds. “Come on everyone, it’s gonna be fine, take what you think you can easily carry and can be useful to fight them. Hair, Helen do you have ropes somewhere?” “Yeah we got the climbing ones”, “Take them with you, los guys, los, LOS!!” Buenjamon was gathering stuff and putting it into his backpack while trying to get everybody moving and getting ready for the escape. He spotted Tiny Feet and asked her about her ankle, “are you ok amorcito, can you walk well?” “ I am perfect, I can do it but we have to take care of Cubacado.” “Let me try” uttered French Fry, “Tiny Feet go get everything we can carry, also for Cuba and I, don’t forget a scarf and a bottle of water, it is pretty cold at night and we need to be hydrated” continued. She sat down next to his friend, took his rather cold hand and full of love and empathy whispered in his ear; “If you don’t move your bubble ass and stay here, there is no chance you will meet him again. Pull yourself together, we need you, he needs you.” He hugged her, “thank you”. Helen of Joy and The Hair got every clue they all had collected, several old broken records an old tennis Racket, that was hanging on the wall, a bat, wigs and sunglasses and packed them; “this might be useful to camuflate and this we can throw like a ninja star, oder? come on!” Tiny Feet got the best knifes she could get, the water and the scarf.
 
In a few minutes they were all ready at the house entrance Buenjamon and Tiny Feet at the front, Pterodactyle and Cubacado, back on his feet, closing the group. Helen of Joy, The Hair and French Fry stood brave and armed in the middle. They had turn in a commando determined to fight for her life, to find Rifraf and to solve the enigma, which was upon them. Time was running out, they have lived this before but paying and with a surveillance of cameras in an Escape Room. They had always won. “If we stick together, we’ll leave long and happily ever after” said convinced Pterodactyle to everyone, looking at French Fry in a way she felt it deep inside while exclaiming “ooooohhh”.
 
They left the Castle; “Let’s go, Treppe hoch!” said Buenjamon. They headed upstairs noiselessly, everything was dark and soon they spotted the trapdoor to the roof. “Boooom!!” a loud noise came from downstairs. They broke in!! Vamos, rápido!! Said Cubacado. The rumbling noise of clumsy steps running up the stairs was getting very creepy. Benjamon was doing his best to open the trapdoor but he could not, the knob was broken and he cannot reach it with his hands, they were too big. “Let me try” said determined Tiny Feet, “are you sure amor?”, “of course I am”. “Open the fucking trapdoor!! What’s wrong?” shouted Helen of joy while looking back at the end of the stairs. “Oh shit they are coming” said Pterodactyle.
 
“Click”; the Trapdoor went wide-open as they rushed out the staircase. Tiny Feet, Buenjamon were the first ones and were helping the others to climb up, Helen of Joy, The Hair, French Fry, Pterodactyle and.. “Cubacado????” he shouted, “Help me!!” then they saw his hand coming out and everyone pulled him out. “Shut it now, there are here!!!” The Hair had found a broken piece of a Chimney and put it on top with the help of Buenjamon and French Fry.
 
They were breathless, shocked for a moment. The lights of the city were partly on, they could see firelight in many streets. At the northwest the Fernsehturm contemplated them speechless at the rooftop of a Berliner altbau. On the east side they could spot die Frankfurter Tor and on the southwest Tempelhofer Feld. “Guys, since when can airplanes land in Tempelhof?” Helen of Joy had been more than thousand times in the old abandoned airport and the image of an airplane there was the last thing she could expect.
 
Boom, Boom, Boom!!, Aaarrrgg aaassrsrrrggg aassrggg Boom Boom Boom!! “they are here”.




Chapter 7: The Rooftop


"Ok Vati, alles klar." 


Klaus Schroeder hung up the phone; his hands shaking. It was an old fashioned telephone in a horrible mustard yellow color, hanging on the wall of his father's house with a 3 meter long cord all jumbled up. To the left of it was an award framed in a thick wood that his brother, Till, had won during a biochemistry competition when he was 14 years old. At 17, his brother had already been published in a state newspaper for developing a solvent, which when consumed, would cause lapses in orientation, faulty motor skills, and an inability to keep track of time. The solvent was later purchased and mass-produced for the US Department of Defence's Bioweapons Division, thanks to a connection that their father had from his work in the CIA at Langley. Till spent many years conducting groundbreaking research and was published in many scientific journals. He now enjoyed a more peaceful life as the Head of the Chemistry Department at the Hausbuchschule back in Berlin. 


Klaus always lived in the shadow of his older brother. Since his father lived all the way across the ocean, they also didn't have a strong relationship. His father had always shown more respect for Till and on top of it, never truly approved of Klaus' lifestyle choices. Klaus often fought the idea off that his father was a racist or homophobic, but there was no denying that there was something there. He convinced himself that it was for having gotten into investigative journalism instead of following the path of science like his brother did. 


He snapped out of it and looked back at the phone there on the wall. He stood in utter disbelief of what his father had just asked him to do. 


-----------------------------
"OH SHIT!! WHAT DO WE DO?" They screamed as the cool night's breeze rushed against them on the rooftop. 


"Did you see that plane just land??" shouted Helen of Joy, pointing southwest towards Tempelhof. The rest followed Helen's finger and looked out in that direction. They could see what appeared to be a large military aircraft, over the trees in the open field. 


"GUYS! I DON'T WANT TO INTERRUPT BUT WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING!" the Hair managed to yell while pressing his back against the orange trap door with Buenjamon, as the zombies tried to force their way through. 


The others quickly turned towards The Hair and Buenjamon. They could see fingers bursting through the crack of the door as if they were peeling open a massive fruit. They ran over to the door to help their friends hold them off. RRRREERRRRRAAAAAAA! 
The banging of the metal combined with the sounds of slobbering and bloodthirst was intolerable. 


"Cubacado!" yelled Frenchy from below Buenjamon's arm supporting the door. Cubacado stood a few meters away, still unable to speak nor process what was happening. 
"The van!" she continued nervously. "DO YOU HAVE THE KEYS TO THE VAN??" 


The banging and thrashing grew stronger on the other side of the door. They could see the top hinges were starting to give. "WE CAN'T HOLD THIS FOR LONG!" baffled an already soaked Buenjamon. Beads of his sweat were trickling down his mighty arms and dropping carelessly onto French Fry's forehead. 
Cubacado rummaged through his pockets to retrieve the key to the old van parked below. 
"I got it!" he exclaimed. 


"How do we lure them away?" he shouted, suddenly coming to his senses. 


Pterodactyl's eyes darted around the roof of the castle and fixed on some broken shards of roof tiles. The cars! He thought to himself. 


He sprinted over to the edge of the roof and peeked his head over the side. His eyes widened as he glanced over the swarm of zombies packed so closely together that it could only be described as a pool of death. He followed along the edge of the herd to the street where he could see several very nice cars parked across the street. 


The Hair and Helen of Joy's castle was in the fancy part of Speiltruppestrasse, where their neighbors spared little expense on their luxury goods. 
Almost within throwing distance he could spot a brand new Mercedes SL 300, an Audi A8 and a 2005 Porsche Camaro. 


He ran back over to the rest, now barely managing to keep the door shut. Arms were beginning to push through, quivering and lashing out at the air. "Cubacado come with me". Pterodactyl said and thrust the tennis racket out of The Hair's backpack. 
He picked up three chunks of rubble off the ground and shoved them into Cubacado's hands. 
The two ran towards the end of the roof. "Toss me the pieces one at a time", Pterodactyl said hastily. He took the tennis racket into his right hand, using a continental grip. Back when he lived in the US, Pterodactyl had gathered around 14 years of playing experience and was proud of his ability to control the ball. This is just like a match. He thought to himself. Except there's just two hundred undead monsters between me and the opponent's court. 
Cubacado bent his knee and lightly tossed one of the pieces of roofing up to Pterodactyl. 
Pterodactyl took a hefty swing, following through over his left shoulder, and sent the chunk of roof hurling through the air. It struck the hubcap of the front left wheel of the Audi and ricocheted off with a loud PING sound. 


A few of the zombies who were at the back of the crowd in the street turned around towards the car. 
DAMN! Pterodactyl thought to himself. "AGAIN!" he yelled. 
Cubacado tossed him the second piece of roof and Pterodactyl blasted it in the same direction. 
It soared over the herd and smashed into pieces upon hitting and barely cracking the windshield of the Audi. More zombies turned and started walking towards the car. It's not landing hard enough! he thought. 


"How the hell are we going to get down?" interrupted Cubacado. 


The two paused and looked around anxiously for any route to reach the ground. On the west side of the castle, they spotted an old rusty ladder scaling down the side. "The Fire Escape!" they declared simultaneously. 


"GUYS WHAT ARE YOU DOING?" shouted French Fry from across the roof. "THEY'RE GETTING THROUGH!"
The door was now completely off the top hinge and bending from the top down. More arms and legs were squeezing through the crack supported by the five of them. 


Cubacado turned back to Pterodactyl and nodded. His soft smile inspired a surge of confidence through Pterodactyl as he stepped back and readied the tennis racket. 
Cubacado released the last, and largest, piece of roof into the air in front of Pterodactyl. With all of his strength, he stepped forward and lobbed it high over the swarm. The racket made a loud SNAP as the strings popped. 
The shard of roof flew through the air, arching marvelously and landed on the windshield of the Audi with a hard CRASH. Instantly as it burst through the glass, the car alarm went off WEEOO WEEOO WEEOO WEEOO. 


"YES!" Pterodactyl said, making a victory fist and letting a smile form across his face, if only for a brief second. 
"WHAT THE HELL?" called The Hair from behind, his hands starting to slip from the door. "WHAT DID YOU DO?" 


Before Pterodactyl answered, Cubacado shook his arm and pointed down to the car. "Look!"
The zombies all slowly started turning around and gathering around the car; the alarm was still blazing. 


The two spun around and rushed towards the others. "Now is our chance! Follow us! Let's GO! Have your weapons ready." 
The other five gave one last pushback against the door before releasing it. They jumped back and scattered out of the way, as it burst open and a wave of zombies came stumbling out. Frenchy, who got back quickest, was fixed on a line of red beaming eyes of the ten or so zombies now rushing towards them. She froze. 
Tiny Feet grabbed her by the arm and she quickly returned to reality. 
"RUN! DOWN THE FIRE ESCAPE!"


They all sprinted towards the fire escape ladder on the other side of the rooftop. Tiny Feet fumbled behind, she could barely put any pressure on her tiny foot. 
Buenjamon turned back, "TINY FEET!" he shrieked. One of the zombies was within a meter from her, reaching out for her shoulder with his deathly hand, pieces of skin and flesh hanging loosely from its skeleton-like fingers. 
Frenchy and Buenjamon ran to Tiny Feet, and Helen of Joy ran towards the zombie with a fire poker she took from the living room. She jabbed it into the zombie's throat just as Tiny Feet was out of its grasp and it fell to the ground with a thud. 
Frenchy and Buenjamon supported Tiny Feet, swinging her arms around their shoulders, lifting her slightly off the ground, and walking briskly towards the ladder. Frenchy's scarf was whiffing back and forth across Tiny Feet's face as they hurried forward. A second zombie thrust itself towards Helen of Joy and the Hair swept in to push it back, bumping it off the blunt end of the bat, causing it to trip onto a spike of an air ventilator from the roof, piercing through its stomach and revealing intestines and several insects. Helen of Joy let out a scream. She was horrified by the sight and couldn't stop staring as the undead creature wrathed and wiggled on the ground, trying to remove itself from the spike. 


Cubacado was the first to reach the top of the fire escape ladder. It was old, black and covered with rust and dropped down about 12 meters following the west tower wing to the ground. There didn't appear to be any zombies below but it was dark and rather difficult to see. He grabbed the top bars and placed his feet on each of the handrails. He slid all the way to the bottom at lightning speed and managed to slow himself down just before reaching the ground. The test tubes in his rucksack clanged together as he made impact. There were no zombies in sight. "Hurry!" he whispered loudly to the others above. 


WEEOO WEEOO WEEOO. They could hear the car alarm still sounding on the other side of the castle across the street. 


The Hair and Helen of Joy were holding their ground between the trap door and the fire escape, fending off the zombies as best they could while Buenjamon and French Fry, still supporting Tiny Feet on their shoulders reached the top of the ladder. "Go Feet!" said French Fry, releasing her friend and helping her to turn around on the ladder. Buenjamon straightened his posture and his knees locked up. He had had to bend down very far to support his beloved munchkin on his shoulders at the same level of a much shorter French Fry and all the weight had gone to his legs. Tiny Feet, unable to slide down the rails, took the ladder steps one at a time, only using her one good foot. 


Meanwhile, another eight or nine zombies piled out of the trap door. The Hair and Helen of Joy were swinging their weapons wildly. They were getting separated on the roof just as two zombies came at The Hair. He struck the fatter one with the bat on the side of the head and right as he followed through, the second zombie threw itself on top of him. He fell hard to the ground. "GAHHHH!" The bat rolled away and The Hair wrapped his hands around the zombie's wrists. His fingers oozed quickly into its flesh as he used all his strength to keep its face away. The zombies eyes flared with bright red flames as it chomped it's teeth trying to bite The Hair's beautiful face. Helen looked over, "HAIR!". She sprinted towards him, slashing another zombie that lurked between them in the knee with the fire poker. 
The zombie's teeth were inches away from The Hair's nose. Blood soaked saliva fell from its month and landed on the Hair's. He could feel its cold lifeless breath against his cheeks. His arms were exhausted after holding the door back for so long and he was losing to the weight of the zombie. It let out a disgusting RRRRREEEEAAAAAA and opened its mouth widely with enough space to tear The Hair's nose clean off. At the last second, the Hair saw an object fly into his peripheral and was temporarily blinded by a huge splatter of blood that covered his face. It was Helen of Joy, knocking the zombie's head right off like a golf club striking the ball. 
The Hair let out a scream and threw the zombie corpse off him, sputtering heaps of blood from its now open neck. He rolled over quickly to pick up the bat and stammered to his feet. 


Tiny Feet was nearing the bottom of the ladder and Buenjamon got in position to slide down. He descended the rails with ease, reaching the ground as Tiny Feet did. "Next!" he yelled up to Frenchy and Pterodactyl in a hushed voice. 
"C'mon!" they yelled to The Hair and Helen of Joy, who were rushing towards the ladder with a small group of zombies chasing them. 
Pterodactyl hopped over the top of the ladder, placed his feet on both sides of the rails and slid down. Helen of Joy reached the ladder and followed suit. 
"GO!" insisted The Hair to Frenchy. She always had to go last, it was pure instinct for her to make sure the others made it safely before she did. 
"YOU!" she said sharply to The Hair, snatching the bat from his hands. He let go and climbed onto the top of the ladder. As he slid about half way down, the straps on his rucksack caught a rusty piece of metal on the ladder right next to the tower window. The force popped his shoulder out of place and he let out a heavy cry. He was stuck in place and couldn't move his arm to let himself free nor to release the bag from his shoulders. 


The others watched anxiously from below as some of the zombies from the roof started to fall off the side of the building and splatter on the ground next to them. French Fry was swinging left and right with the bat, trying to push them off the edge. 


The Hair heard a sickly growl from the tower window next to him and could make out two red dots from the darkness of the room. A hand lurched out of the window and started to claw at him. The Airbnb guest! They had forgotten entirely about him. The bloodthirsty Japanese houseguest lashed out with his long fingernails, just missing The Hair's arm, still stark full of pain. 


WEEOO. WEEOO. Just at that second, Buenjamon started climbing back up the ladder towards his friend as they heard the crushing of glass and metal over the car alarm followed by sudden silence. The alarm had stopped, all they could hear were murmurs and growls from the hundreds of zombies who had now gathered on the other side of the castle around the Audi. FUCK! Cubacado ran to the corner of the castle wall to peak around the side and see what was happening. It was too dark to see and he didn't have his glasses on. 
All he could make out was a blur of more and more red dots amongst the darkness appearing. The zombies were turning to the house and started stumbling towards them. 
"They're coming back!" he shouted to the others as he ran over to where they were. 


The Hair was trying to break free but couldn't get through. Frenchy had made it to the top of the ladder and quickly slid down to where her friend was stuck. The Airbnb guest now half way out the tower window. Frenchy tried to bash its hand with the bat while holding onto the ladder above The Hair with her other hand. Two more zombies came crashing down from the roof, bouncing off the ladder and showering the two with blood and guts. She looked down and saw the broken records sitting loosely from the now torn rucksack. She reached over and was able to pull one of the vinyls out. She held the bat under her armpit and broke the vinyl over her knee with the other hand. 
With her small stature, she was able to squeeze around between the ladder and the stone tower wall to slice the zombie's hand off with the piece of record. Buenjamon had reached the Hair's feet now from below. 
"Ready?" Frenchy asked from above. She placed the sharp end of the record on the strap of the rucksack and started sawing. 


After an intense 30 seconds, it snapped free, and The Hair's weight fell onto Buenjamon who was barely able to keep hold of the ladder rails. The Hair reacted quickly enough and with his good arm, was able to catch himself on one of the rings, relieving him and Buenjamon from a possibly catastrophic fall. Frenchy couldn't get the rucksack off of the piece of metal. 
"HURRY!" They heard from below. The three rushed down the ladder, leaving the bag with many of their supplies suspended above.


The Speiltruppe ran around the side of the castle and past the shed. The Shed! Helen thought to herself. "Guys we have guns and supplies in the shed!" 
"There's no time!" Pterodactyl exclaimed, pushing her forward to keep going. 


They could see the outline of the van up ahead. Luckily, it was parked on their corner of the castle but the sound of the zombies approaching grew louder. Tiny Feet was hobbling one one foot with the help of her Buenjamon. The Hair was unable to move his left arm but  took the bat back from Frenchy, who was still carrying the shards of vinyl in her pockets. 
They reached the van and Cubacado unlocked it quickly from a few meters away. The lights flashed and the nearby zombies started gathering around the back of the van towards them.
With only seconds to spare, they jumped in the car. Everyone had managed to close their doors except for Buenjamon, who was helping Tiny Feet into the car. His leg was still out the door when he felt a wet and hard grip around his ankle. 


Cubacado's hands were trembling fiercely as he tried to get the key into the ignition to start the van. The engine clicked loudly but wouldn't start. He tried again, and again. C'mon C'MON C'MON! 


In the backseat, Tiny Feet pulled out one of the kitchen knives from its holder and dropped to the floor of the van. She lunged her arm out the crack of the van door and chopped the wrist of the zombie holding onto Buenjamon's ankle clean off. He fell back in the van on top of her and slammed the door shut, pulling his foot inside, still wrapped with what was left of the undead hand. 


The engine revved and started up. "VAMOS!" Cubacado howled. He shifted the van into reverse and smashed his foot against the gas pedal. The van let out a hefty roar and bounced up and down over the zombies behind them, crushing them to pieces below the tires. They made it out of the driveway and sped down Speiltruppestrasse dodging heaps of zombies. 
"Where are we going??" asked Helen of Joy, still shaking. 
"Let's go to the Hausbuchschule", replied Pterodactyl hastily. 
Cubacado nodded, "it's on Hausbuchstrasse about 20 minutes from here." 


There was a moment of silence in the van. They all sat there, covered in blood and bits of organs, unable to utter a single word. Cubacado turned off of Speiltruppestrasse and they sped off into the night. 
------


On the other side of the city, the yellow mustard phone rang again. This time it was Klaus' brother, Till. 


Klaus had been waiting impatiently for further instruction for the last twenty minutes after the call from his father and in the meantime, prepared a duffle bag with food, water, two knives, several boxes of ammo, a Colt 45 Handgun, and a walkie-talkie. 
His brother's voice came crackling through the other end of the phone. There was no "hallo" from his brother this time, only an address. 


"Hausbuchstrasse no. 16." 


The phone receiver clicked. Klaus picked up the handgun, released the trigger guard and loaded the magazine into the bottom. He pulled up the back of his jacket and nestled the gun into his pants' waistband. 


He let out a heavy breath as he exited the flat, threw the duffle bag into the back of his car, and drove off towards the school. 




Chapter 8: The Truth






“Wohoooooo GUYSSSS” exclaimed Pterodactyl, full of Energy, while the Van speeded out of the congregation of zombies and bounced on the road with a fixed destination. “ We fucking made it!” 


Buenjamon, still laying down on the Van, was pale. No one realized, still full of adrenaline, everybody talking at the same time “did you see how I fucking kicked that fucking Zombie?” yelled Helen of Joy, with proudness. “And did you see how the fuck I killed your fucking Airbnb guest? And saved your boyfriend?” yelled even louder Frenchy, with an astonished expression, remembering the moment she saved The Hair from his fatal fate. 


Everybody in the Van was bouncing from one side to another, while Cubacado, at the wheel, was extremely concentrated, dodging zombies, running over them, turning, and speeding, speeding up, getting away from the hell they just lived. He was also happy they made it through, but couldn’t enjoy the moment, he had to concentrate on the traffic- or lack of it. 
“Guys” muttered Tiny Feet- “I think there’s something wrong with Buenjamon”. Everybody stopped talking and fixed their look into Buenjamon- everybody but Cubacado, still fixed in the driving. He looked through the rear mirror “What’s with him? tell me! what’s with him?” 
Buenjamon, still lying down, said nothing. Pale, his body was still and cold. His eyes were open, his sight was fixed into Tiny’s Feet. Tiny Feet, holding his head on her lap, and caressing his thick hair, was crying. “Amorcin” he managed to say. “I didn’t tell you something, I didn't tell anybody something, that I should have said a long time ago”. “What is it?” cried Tiny Feet, panicking, everybody was starting to get really nervous, all the adrenaline from the fight was coming down, and the reality of the situation was coming to all of them. 
Two nights ago, back in our place at Spieltruppestr. 2, when our neighbor was outside, remember?” started Buenjamon with a weak voice, it was hardly noticeable, with all the insistent sounds from the driving and Buenjamon’s low voice, it was hard to understand. “What did he say?” said French Fry. “He’s saying something that happened at out place two nights ago, when Mr. Clark was staring at us- said Tiny Feet, and now looking and Buenjamon “yes, what happened?” 
“Well.. “ he continued, taking a lot of energy to talk “I went to the kitchen to get some ice for your Tiny Feet” he swallowed, slowly, his throat was dry. “WATER!” Yelled French Fry, taking Buenjamon’s Backpack and checking inside. She took the bottle, threw it to Tiny Feet, who caught it at the moment, opened the lid, and poured, slowly, some water into her lovers mouth. Buenjamon took another deep breath, and continued “when I reached the fridge, I saw a shadow on the other side of the window. I got distracted with it, looked more attentively to what that shadow actually was. When my eyes got used to the shadow, it took only milliseconds to realize what was I looking at. It was Mr. Clark’s cat. She was walking on the corbel of our window, as she usually does. But there was something off with her. I was not fast enough to realize it until it was too late. She had a deformed body, her ribs were showing out, I could see the flesh and dry blood. Her snout was split in two, half of it hanging, her tongue was suspended on her left side. All this I only realized when the cat, with supernatural strength, crashed towards the window, smashing it with the rest of the head that was left on her, thirsty for blood, I supposed. Everything happened so fast that I automatically reacted, I opened the fridge’s door and the cat, while still on the air jumping towards me, with hungry and evil eyes fixated into my body, smashed completely with the fridge’s door, and that was it, the cat was dead, looked like red porridge on the floor and part of the fridge’s door. I quickly cleaned everything, and when I was about to leave the kitchen… it’s when I realized that that creature had scratched me in my arm, I guess while I was opening the fridge. I got so scared about the situation, that I entered in shock. I cleaned the scratch and bandaged it, and as I was not feeling sick, well, until now… I didn’t say anything.” Buenjamon started to shake. Foam started to come out of his mouth, his body got tense and started to cramp.
“Fuck guys!!” yelled Helen of Joy. 
For one second, that seemed more like a minute, nobody knew what to do. They were just looking at Buenjamon, understanding the gravity of the situation. Then all of their thoughts got interrupted by the voice of The Hair “Cubacao, where are the tubes” he inquired, with a severe expression in his face, extending his only healthy arm now towards Cubacao’s jacket. “They are not there” said Cubacado, “I put them in my fluffy hair, it’s the safest place they can be” Everybody looked incredulous to Cubacado while he pulled out one tube with a blue liquid in it. “There’s only one tube?” Inquired Helen of Joy “Well..” continued Cubacado, still speeding the Van towards their destination “There was a total of three tubes. One of them fell down while I was coming up the trap to get on the rooftop…” and then he continued, rarely ashamed “and the other one, I drank” 


“What¿¿” Exclaimed everybody. “Yes man… “Cuabcado said “I don’t know, I didn’t get bitten or anything, but I rather have the antidote on me that ends up like…” then he stopped talking, he just looked through the rear mirror again, looking at Buenjamon. 


“Whatever” said The Hair. “Give me the tube, rapido, before it’s too late for Buenjamon” The hair got the tube. Everybody was concentrated on his moves. It's the only solution they had left to save their beloved friend’s life. Tiny Feet, silently crying, held Buenjamon’s head, his body still cramping and sweating, his mouth still full of foam. 


“Open his mouth” commanded The Hair. Tiny Feet did as told. Then, the liquid gurgled into Buenjamon’s mouth. “I guess we pour all of the liquid, isn’t it?” Questioned The Hair, but there was no answer coming to that question, for it was an obvious yes. 


The Van started to rumble. The Van’s floor was buzzing, and a pinging noise muted all words from the group. The van’s speed started to decrease, and smoke came from the bonnet. A smell of burnt  started to invade the vehicle. 


Cubacado lost control of the steering wheel. The van started to zig zag on the road, all occupants had to hold themselves into something not to fall or hit their bodies with a part of the van. Helen of Joy barfed. 


“toa la papa ahi” said French Fry 


The Van completely stopped. They couldn’t see anything, everything was covered in smoke. Pterodactyl opened a door, looked left and right- the street was empty, seemingly safe. He then opened the back door, to check on his friend. Buenjamon was still, lying down, the foam and cramps stopped, and his skin did not look that pale anymore. A Heavy Nasal sound came from Buenjamon, he was peacefully sleeping. Tiny Feet looked at him and kissed him. Buenjamon opened his eyes. “What a susto, eh guys?” he said with his broad bear smile, and everybody laughed and breathed calmly again to realize that their friend was back again. Pterodactyl gave him a hand to help him sit up. “Gentle'' said Tiny Feet, putting one of her tiny hands-on Buenjamon’s back. 


“Where are we?” asked The Hair. “I’m not sure” answered Cubacado, opening the driver’s door and stepping out. 


Helen of Joy didn’t say anything. She opened her door and ran to the opposite walk side to the left, put a hand on the building, bent her head to the front and barfed again. 
“uh, I guess she gets easily car sick” pointed out French Fry 


“Yeah, indeed” confirmed the Hair, touching on his right injured shoulder, with a grimace face. 


“How are you feeling my friend?” Smiled Pterodactyl at Buenjamon, “What a trip you had, eh?” he joked. 


“Guys, what the hell eh?” he said. “But I am feeling ok, I mean, I have been better, but I am ok” Buenjamon explained. “I feel … reborn! thank you all so much for reacting so fast, it was amazing. You saved my life” he exclaimed, opening his arms and hugging all the crew at once. He then turned to Tiny Feet with lovers’ eyes “and your kiss brought me back from the underworld!” he hugged her and lifted her, giving her the most romantic of kisses in the middle of an apocalyptic world. 






They all looked around to see if they could grasp a bit of orientation. Helen of Joy was still on the sidewalk, now lying down with her legs up. She yelled at the others “I’m fine! I just need a bit of fresh air, I feel dizzy! I just need a minute!” 


“All good corazoncin” said The Hair while approaching her. “Take the water” said Frenchy, giving The Hair the last bit of water left in the bottle. 
The Hair crossed the road and approached Helen of Joy, cleaned all the barf off her face and hair with his own sleeve, and gave her some water. He kissed her on the forehead. “Don’t worry, it’s fine. Buenjamon is back on his feet, we’re just trying to see where we are…” said the Hair. “You are so handsome” smiled Helen of Joy, looking at him upside down. Then she made a funny face, and both of them laughed in the middle of all the chaos. “It’s nice to hear a bit of that melodic sound coming from you” confessed the Hair.
“Guys, I know where we are” said Cubacado. “We’re not far away from the school. I recognize the park there on the right, it’s where me and Rif Raf use to have lunch when I come visit him at school…” he said, and a sudden terrified, panicking expression was in his face when he turned around to the others, and saw what was coming right where Helen of Joy and The Hair were. But it was too late. 


“AAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!”  a piercing scream came from Helen of Joy. The Hair, in Horror, saw what was happening in front of him. Three zombies, which one more detestable, grabbed Helen of Joy by the legs. The sequence happened really quick. When The Hair was able to react, it was too late. One of the zombies, the one looking more terrifying, with a dislocated jaw grabbed Helen of Joy’s entire leg and bit her. The zombies intestines dragged in the dirt and a grudging voice came from the very deep of these monstrous creatures. Tendons from Helen of Joy’s leg came out, and the other two zombies attempted to bite her toes, but Tiny Feet appeared with the van’s tailpipe and introduced it in one of the Zombie’s mouth, smashing his head completely. The Hair looked in horror, but Tiny Feet made him react and kicked with his foot the ugliest zombie, the one eating Helen of Joy’s tendons. His kick aimed to the slippery intestines and came through the whole rotten body of the Zombie and got stuck. The Zombie looked at him, and for a second, they both stared into each other’s eyes, until Pterodactyl arrived with a bat and hit the Zombie’s head, which flew away for 10 meters. The third zombie, the one left, aimed again at Helen of Joy’s toes. She had passed out. The whole crew reached already the Zombies, ready to kill the last one, and it was Cubacado who terminated the nightmare, jumping across everybody, opening his legs towards the zombie’s neck, he was a rocket, he twisted his legs around the Zombie’s neck, pressed, flipped and turned in a second, breaking the zombie’s neck and decapitating him. 


There was silence. They were all exhausted. The silence got interrupted by a howl coming from The Hair’s mouth, he had picked Helen of Joy on his arms. The picture was devastating. Helen of Joy was dead. 


Or, was she? 


Two red eyes opened from what was before the joyful face of Helen of Joy. She grunted. French Fry, being the fastest, put Buenjamon’s rucksack on her face, covering it, took her scarf and tight Helen of Joy’s hands. She was now immobilized. The Hair left her on the ground, and she grunted, sniffed and grunted again. 


They were all paralyzed. “what do we do now!!” cried The Hair “I won’t leave her here! I will die before I leave her here!” he cried hysterically. “And we won’t leave her here,” said Tiny Feet, very decided and serious. “We are not leaving anyone behind”. 


They all agreed, but they were scared. How should we transport a zombie without being bitten? Pterodactyl had an idea “alright, whoever has a belt, take it off” he commanded. “It’s not time for one of your naked fantasies, love” said French Fry “I know” said Pterodactyl. “It’s for another purpose now. We’ll go back to the fantasy at another time.” Buenjamon, the Hair and Cubacado, strangely only the men were carrying a belt, also Pterodactyl. They put all the belts together and formed a leash to carry Helen of Zoy (Zombie + Joy). It looked as it worked! 


“Alright, it works” confirmed Pterodactyl l after testing the resistance of the leash with the strength of Helen of Zoy. She kept moving, sniffing and grunting. “We are ready to go” he continued, leading the group towards the park Cubacado described, followed by Helen of Zoy, pulling and pushing with the rucksack still on her face, and behind, The Hair, Buenjamon, French Fry and closing the group was Cubacado and Tiny Feet. 


They crossed the empty and dark park and turned into Hausbuchstrasse. 


“Number 1…. Number 2….. Number 8….” was counting French Fry. “We’re almost there.”


And there it was. A robust, four story brownstone building was in front of them.  What was once a beautiful, baronial building was now carbuncle and dank. The path leading to the entrance was covered by glass splatters, limbs and dead birds. The main door, once a robust well carved massive wooden door with the “Hausbuchschule Leben, Lachen, Lernen” emblem was now partially destroyed and now one could only read “Hau..le, ben, La… en….”. They pulled the massive door and air rushed through echoing in the emptiness of the building.
They entered. The school looked as if a bloody battle had happened there some time ago. The main corridor on the right had what was left of a barricade made with 5 kg flour bags. On the left corridor, the one leading to the principal’s office, was now blocked by an improvised wall made out of desks and chairs. On the front, there were stairs with bits of wall and ceiling on them, papers and documents all over the floors. 


The group gathered at the entrance, contemplating the scenario. None of them said anything, only Helen of Zoy’s grunts were audible. 


“Alright” The Hair was the one to break the silence. “I don’t know what happened here, but I don’t want to waste more time. Where is the chemistry lab?” he said while walking towards what was once the map of the school, now full of bullet holes. 


Tiny feet reached it first, and together with French Fry, they examined the map. “It’s on the second floor” said Cubacado without looking at the map. He looked really worried and shocked. Of course, he was the only one knowing the building as it was before. “i really wonder what the hell happened here” said Pterodactyl  while all the truppe started to climb up the stairs, he continued “I mean, we were only two hours at the kegelheim and then the whole world was upside down…” 


“it was more than two hours” 


A voice, very familiar to all of them, came from behind them when they were all just about to turn into the first floor and head towards the second floor. 


A silhouette in the left corridor of the first floor was staring at them. It stepped towards them and the moonlight coming from the window reflected the face: it was Rif Raf. 




————- 
“RifRaf” gasped Cubacado, running towards him with wide-open arms. RifRaf stopped him and looked away, his face was dead serious, his eyebrows frowned. “I see you found my note… what took you so long?” RifRaf asked. 




“what took us so long?” inquired Tiny Feet, “what do you mean? it took us ONE day! Have you realized what’s going on out there?” said Tiny Feet pointing at the window. 
“I wrote that note three weeks ago…” said RifRaf. “Damn.. “he muttered “ its effects are really strong….” 


“the effects of what??” inquired Buenjamon, now positioning himself at the front of the truppe, looking at Rif Raf with worry and anger. 


“ok, ok guys…” Cubacado positioned himself in between Buenjamon and Rif Raf. “calm down…” 


“Calm down?” said Buenjamon and Pterodactyl in unison. “what do you mean? Rif Raf, please, stop with the secrets. What are you hiding from us?” Pterodactyl inquired.


Rif Raf started to sob. “I can’t tell you…”


Then French Fry went towards him and slapped Rif Raf with Spanish passion on the face. “Rif Raf, no tengo el chocho pa farolillos. You see that…. thing there???” French Fry pointed at Helen of Zoy, that was half hidden on the stairs and still grunting. “That’s our friend, your friend, Helen of Joy, now Helen of Zoy because she is a fucking Zombie. She got bitten about ten minutes ago, or well,,, that’s what we think.” she said. “So you’re gonna give us some answers if you don’t want us all to go real nuts” she said, courageously. 


“what… that’s Helen of Joy?” Rif Raf looked as guilty as ever. “But what did you do with the tubes I left you?” he inquired to Cubacado. 


“well.. “started Cubacado


“they’re all gone” finished Tiny Feet. “Rif Raf…” she continued “ I can’t imagine what you have been through and the reasons that brought you here, but we really need to know what’s going on” she implied. 


“And you will,” he said. “Sit down, I will tell you everything”. The truppe sat down on the stairs, Helen of Zoy was nervously moving, sniffing and grunting. The Hair looked at her with a sad face. 


“Alright guys… about a year and a half ago, I was working late at school. I had to correct some exams as the Abitur was about to come for my students. I was in my classroom, the school was already closed for about two hours, and I thought I was alone at school. I had done this already several times, to be the last one to leave school, so I did not expect anyone to be there…. but then, I heard someone talking. The conversation, coming from the Chemistry lab, got louder. I wondered who it was, I stood up and headed to the lab. 


The door was half opened, light was coming out from it. I peeked inside, and saw my coworker, the Head of Chemistry department, Till. I didn’t see his face, he was with his back towards the door, but I could see the face of the other person he was talking to, an old man. He was yelling at him, which later I realized it was his father. 


“Ich habe gesagt, wir werden dass machen” he was saying to the old man. Then the floor creaked, and I was discovered. The old man looked at me, then Till. They both came towards me, I felt scared, so I ran. But I stepped on a pile of books and stumbled, falling on the floor. The two men picked me up, and locked me up at the lab. 


I was tortured. I was inquired, for hours, about what I heard. I literally didn’t hear anything. Then, Till, choleric, told me that my life was about to change, if I wanted to continue living, the same for my beloved ones. He said I had a duty. He inquired about Cubacado’s job, I first didn’t say anything, but he kept torturing me with a chemical that makes your bones squeeze, and that’s very painful. 
I broke down. I told them about your vaccine research, Cubacado, and about the conference you were about to attend in Washington DC on that same weekend. 


When I told  them this information, their eyes grew wide open, and an evil smile formed in their faces, as if they had just found the solution to their argument. 


They commanded me to go with you to Washington DC and to carry with me a very dangerous chemical- I did not know what it was until we got there. I met with the minister of health while you were at the conference, and traded suitcases. I was commanded to bring back what the minister had given to me. So I did. And I thought my deal was over with Till and his father. But no. 


They explained to me the maleficent plan. What I had brought to the States, was the antidote to the deadly virus that I just brought back with me. 




They told me the virus will be activated, and was supposed to erase all kind of minor races, only to make the arian race survive. 


I couldn’t believe what I was hearing, and what I just had done. I was horrified. I was shocked, scared to death. 


They had an evil plan, and I could not do anything to avoid it. They told me when the attack was about to be made.  So I insisted to the Hair to plan a kegelnight, so it came from his side to go to the kegelplace. 


I then went to the Kegelheim and inserted a special drug in all your beverages. It’s an old drug that Till discovered twenty years ago, which gained all his reputation as a chemist. This drug, when consumed, would cause lapses in orientation, faulty motor skills, and an inability to keep track of time. But I had no idea of its effects until now that you all told me that you saw my note yesterday, when I actually left it there three weeks ago… 
I changed even the clock at the kegelheim for you to think that we were playing there two hours” Rif Raf stopped talking, he was shaking, tears coming out of his eyes.


“RifRaf” asked Pterodactyl… “How long were we playing Kegel?” he feared the answer. All of them did. 


“I am not exactly sure” he responded “but I would say…. around two months” 


Tiny feet and French fry gasped. The Hair put a hand on his forehead. Buenjamon moved his hands along his hair. Pterodactyl and Cubacado did nothing. They just stared at Rif Raf, with a blank sight. 


“two… months…???” said the hair, still not believing the reality. “So, what day is it today?” he asked


“well.. if my calculations are not wrong… it might be 6th of April today” RifRaf responded


They all turned towards Tiny Feet, sitting down on top of the stairs. “That means.. it’s your birthday today, Tiny!!” smiled Frenchy, standing up and hugging her yet incredulous friend. The rest of the truppe followed Frenchy's gesture, hugging and muttering “happy birthday” to Tiny Feet, but she could not really enjoy it, she looked at Helen of Zoy, which curiously had stopped grunting and snorting, as if understanding the situation, “It won’t be my birthday until we solve… this “ she pointed with her chin towards their now Zombie friend. They all looked towards her, the poor thing was trying to get loose the leash that Pterodactyl was still holding. 


The silence was interrupted by the sound of the main entrance closing. Some fast steps were followed by the closing door, coming straight towards them through the stairs. 


It was Klaus.








Chapter 9: “Leben, Lachen, Lernen”
Klaus thoroughly thought what he had to do, step by step. He was so focused on his father’s instructions that he did not consider that any unforeseen circumstances could come up along the way. Besides fearing his father, he didn’t work well under pressure. Running into a bunch of people walking a zombie on a leash was definitely not in his plans.
Tiny Feet, Buenjamon, Cubacado, The Hair, Pterodactyl and French Fry hung briefly in a state of limbo. Within all this madness, it was hard to read one’s own feelings. Should they be glad they found someone that wouldn’t tear their skin off? On the other hand, trust shouldn’t be taken so lightly right now. They looked over at Rif Raf, searching for answers. After all, if he also decided to come to the Hausburgschule, they might know each other already. Rif Raf examined Klaus, he really couldn’t tell if he knew him, but something in him felt quite familiar. Of course it did. If Klaus would just be wearing one of his corsets and his ginger wig, he would have recognized one the greatest performers drag queens Berlin has ever seen.
Helen of Zoy was trying now to free herself from the backpack on her head while letting disturbing screams out. Klaus finally drove his attention to her and then he saw it. It was Helen of Joy’s vagina. It couldn’t be anyone else. How many people have a vagina tattooed on their arm in that exact spot? he thought.
Helen of Joy? Is that you? – he asked perplexed.
Wait, hang on, you know her? – continued the Hair approaching him with a mix of surprise and hope. Maybe him recognizing his loving Helen humanized her for a second, giving him some relief.
We work together, I’m Klaus. Let me guess, you are the Hair?
But Tiny Feet left the Hair no chance to respond. That was just such an enormous coincidence.
Why are you here? – she intervened.
Uh…mm..uh – he didn’t count on answering these kind of questions neither. – well… why are you all here? – His voice now was trembling. By the look on their faces and French Fry’s deep stare as she slowly approached him, he figured that he had to come up with something good.
…